SOUTH African Breweries (SAB) has embarked on a road safety drive ahead of the festive season, launching a further four Alcohol Evidence Centre’s (AECs) in Durban, Limpopo, Marlboro, and Soweto before December. The country’s leading brewer has already invested in 17 AECs across South Africa, which have shown great success in reducing fatalities and increasing successful convictions. The Pietermaritzburg AEC; which opened seven months ago in a partnership between the National Department of Transport, the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Transport and SAB; has helped to reduce road fatalities in the area by 44%. The state-of-the-art AECs are equipped with the necessary equipment required by law enforcement officials to accurately and efficiently determine the breath alcohol level of a person suspected of driving under the influence. If a driver’s breath alcohol level is tested at above the legal limit, they are arrested and detained in a SAPS facility. In the five months between March and the end of July this year, there were over 420 arrests and 70 successful prosecutions in the same area. October is Transport Month, and saw SAB collaborate with the National Department of Transport and The Provisional Transport Departments to promote road safety, providing road safety pamphlets and driving a responsible consumption message at the launch of the 365 Days of Road Safety Programme officiated by President Cyril Ramaphosa. SAB joined the Limpopo Department of Transport at their Provisional October Road Safety Launch, which included roadblocks and talks on responsible driving. “We have committed to assist at roadblocks through the festive season around the country, providing bottled water and road safety pamphlets, and assisting with random alcohol testing,” said Zoleka Lisa, senior director corporate affairs, SAB and AB InBev Africa. “We aim to make a real and positive impact on society and to do as much as possible to help change behaviour. Lower blood alcohol concentration limits and stricter enforcement have been proven around the world to reduce the number of accidents and fatalities linked to drinking and driving. South Africans must realise that if you are going to drink, you cannot drive.” — Supplied.