Some disgruntled Eastern Cape Springbok fans, angered at not getting an opportunity to see their heroes up close, protested by burning tyres and old furniture. While the trophy tour in captain Siya Kolisi's home province was largely successful, with thousands of happy fans celebrating the team's success, residents in the Northern Areas vented their anger by protesting. Police had to manage the traffic and discouraged people from driving past Stanford Road, in the Helenvale area. They said stones had been thrown from some houses near the road and that motorists had been at risk. WATCH | Super Siya: 'If South Africa is number one, there is no way you can go wrong' The Springboks put the team and the country first, captain Siya Kolisi told journalists on Sunday morning as the fourth leg of their trophy tour kicked off in a rainy Port Elizabeth. "We can't say don't go, but just be assured that your safety is not guaranteed – the people here are angry the Springboks bus didn't drive through here after they had waited for so long," said an unidentified Tactical Response Team (TRT) guard on duty. There was disappointment in KwaNobuhle, Uitenhage, where the bus was also a no-show. Resident Tamsanqa Mbovane said people were very disappointed that they had missed the bus. "The people are angry here. They were waiting for the bus to come through. Why did it not come?" he asked. He said, although he understood they could not reach everyone, "many people, both children and adults were disappointed. They waited in numbers and for a long time to see them". The Springboks apologised via social media to their disappointed Eastern Cape fans.  'We love you, Siya Kolisi' Overall, the Rugby World Cup champions arrived to a massive turnout in Nelson Mandela Bay, ahead of their scheduled victory tour in Port Elizabeth. Thousands of supporters and well wishers gathered, first at the Port Elizabeth Airport on Saturday afternoon, and more came on Sunday. The first crowd to enjoy the champions gathered in front of the City Hall, braving the rains in the morning on Sunday, waving flags and singing songs of celebration. Kolisi and his team arrived under heavy police and security protection, when they made their way to the City Hall. The crowds got to see the Webb Ellis Cup, as Kolisi walked in with it and placed it on the podium. "We love you, Siya Kolisi," said a young boy standing in the front row. Waving his flag and clad in his green jersey, he stood, watching in awe, as Kolisi addressed the fans. "We'd like to thank you for the support, we really appreciate it," he said. 'Where is Kolisi?' Many thousands of fans stood roadside along the tour route. Braving the rain, people lined the streets and some came out of their churches to ensure they could wave and blow kisses at the Boks. "Uphi uKolisi? (Where is Kolisi?)" they shouted. The 38-car and bus entourage carrying the team, staff, and municipality officials, were forced to slow down often, due to the density of the crowds. In New Brighton and KwaZakhele – the oldest townships in the Nelson Mandela Bay municipality - people jogged next to the bus. The crowds grew on the main roads of Zwide, where the Bok captain hails from. The convoy was engulfed by throngs of supporters screaming for Kolisi, their favourite son. "Siya! Siya! Siya! Siya!" they chanted as they ran next to the entourage. Nelson Mandela Bay Mayor Mongameli Bobani could not contain his excitement during the tour. "I'm truly humbled and excited that such a magical moment is taking place during my time of leadership in the Nelson Mandela Bay – the showers of rain have also confirmed that this is indeed an exceptional blessing," he said. Many left disappointed Motherwell fans gathered in the same spot where Nelson Mandela was welcomed almost 30 years ago. They filled the streets and quickly noticed the absence of their captain, who had to go to Cape Town for a sports award. More disappointment would follow, as the multitudes of crowds in Greenacres Mall missed out on the fun enjoyed by the rest of the city. The bus carrying the team sped past the crowd, although it had initially been intended to stop for signing of Bokke regalia and rugby balls. The tour concludes in Cape Town on Monday. 