Thundershowers
are expected across South Africa on Wednesday, with the SA
Weather Service warning of severe storms over parts of the
Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal. Warnings: Extremely high fire danger
conditions are expected over the northern parts of the Northern Cape, extreme
western parts of the North West and extreme north-western parts of the
Free State. Heavy rainfall leading to localised flooding is expected over the
south coast and adjacent interior of the Western Cape, as well as the west
coast of the western half of the Eastern Cape. Watches: Severe thunderstorms are expected
in places over the western parts over the north-eastern parts of the Eastern
Cape, and in places over the eastern parts of KwaZulu-Natal. Snapshot
of the weather in your region: Gauteng will be
partly cloudy and warm with scattered afternoon showers and thundershowers. The
expected UVB sunburn index is low. Mpumalanga will
be cloudy with morning fog in the east, otherwise partly cloudy and warm but
hot in places in the Lowveld, with scattered showers and thundershowers but
widespread in the south. Limpopo is
expected to be cloudy with fog in the east, otherwise partly cloudy and warm
but hot in the Lowveld and Limpopo Valley with isolated showers and
thundershowers but scattered in the south-west. The North West will
be partly cloudy and warm, but hot in the extreme west. Scattered showers and
thundershowers are expected in the east but isolated over the central parts,
while the Free
State is expected to be partly cloudy and warm, with
isolated showers and thundershowers over the central parts but scattered in the
east. The Northern Cape can
expect morning mist along the coast where it will be cool, otherwise fine and
warm to hot but partly cloudy to cloudy and cool with afternoon showers over
the southern high ground. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong
southerly to south-easterly but moderate in the morning. The Western Cape will
be fine and cool along the west coast and adjacent interior, otherwise partly
cloudy and warm with isolated showers and thundershowers but scattered to
widespread along the south coast and adjacent interior. The wind along the
coast will be fresh to strong south-easterly to southerly but moderate north of
Cape Columbine in the morning. The expected UVB sunburn index is high. The western half of the Eastern Cape will
be partly cloudy to cloudy and warm but cool along the coast with isolated
showers and thundershowers but scattered to widespread in the south. The wind
along the coast will be fresh to strong south-westerly. The eastern half of the
province will be partly cloudy to cloudy and warm with isolated showers and
thundershowers but scattered over the southern and eastern parts. The wind along
the coast will be fresh to strong south-westerly. KwaZulu-Natal will
see morning fog over the interior, otherwise partly cloudy and warm to hot but
cool in places in the south with widespread showers  and thundershowers
but scattered in the south-west. The wind along the coast will be fresh to
strong north-easterly, becoming moderate southerly to south-westerly in the
south by late morning and spreading to Mandeni by the evening. The expected UVB
sunburn index is low.  Temperatures:          - Compiled by Yunus Kemp Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days.          