The Free State police are investigating a case
of rape which was lodged against a female after care teacher at Brandwag
Primary School in Bloemfontein on Friday 15 November 2019. The case involves the 28-year-old teacher and a
13-year-old pupil. The alleged rapist is a law student who has
been assisting at the school for eight years and she is not employed by the
Department of Education. The accused has been an assistant teacher after
hours because some pupils have nowhere to go after school since some of their
parents come back late from work. Spokesperson of the Free State Department of Education
told Drum, “The incident happened outside the school and after school hours, at
the victim’s home which is not too far from the school.” “We do not know how the woman ended up at the
pupil’s home because on that day she was not on duty, but obviously the victim
did have access to his parent’s flat.” Howard explained that other learners witnessed
the incident and went to report it to the principal, who then informed the boy’s
family and a case was opened with the police. “We can confirm that the accused is suspended
and that we are currently offering the counselling services for the pupil, his family
and the other learners who witnessed the whole incident, we are not taking this
matter lightly,” she said. The MEC of Education in Bloemfontein also took
to social media to express his view on the matter. He said, “I am disgusted with the alleged rape
incident of a boy learner by after care assistant teacher employed by SGB of
Brandwag PS. Thankfully the alleged perpetrator has been arrested yesterday afternoon
[sic]”. Police spokesperson, Brigadier Motantsi Makhele
told DRUM that a case of sexual assault has been opened at the Parkweg police
station and that the case is being investigated by the Family Violence, Child
Protection and Sexual Offences Unit. “The suspect was arrested on 19 November 2019
by (FCS) Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences, she will appear
before the Bloemfontein Magistrates court on Thursday.” 