Deon Wiggett, in a four-part true crime podcast supplied exclusively to News24, tracks down the man who sexually abused him more than 20 years ago. 'I was raped at 17, and I'm not the only one' - man tracks alleged molester after 20 years - Part 1In the first podcast, Wiggett recounts a chilling story of how he and other boys were allegedly sexually molested by a man - dubbed Jimmy - who used to be a teacher at Grey College. Wiggett's memories of abuse were jolted by his father's death in November 2017.   Tracking the 7 'missing years' of the man who raped me 20 years ago - Part 2In his second podcast, Wiggett sets off to Grey College under a guise in an attempt to gain access to the school's archives to find more of Jimmy's victims. He easily charms his way into the school by pretending to be part of a research project.   Unmasking 'Jimmy' - this is the man who raped me 20 years ago - Part 3Wiggett unmasks "Jimmy" as Willem Breytenbach. He dedicates the third episode to Ben whom he describes as his brother. "Ben, thank you. Meeting you gave me the big break I needed, both factually and emotionally. He is one of the heroes of this story. Not only are you my brother, but you were the first to say to me, 'me too'."   'Willem Breytenbach will no longer bother us and I find peace in that' - Part 4 In this much-anticipated finale of a series of podcasts co-published by News24, Deon Wiggett recounts a chilling story of how he and other boys were allegedly sexually molested more than 20 years ago by Willem Breytenbach, who used to be a teacher at a prestigious school and later became an executive at Media24.    ALSO READ: Warrant Officer Rowan Andrews is the investigating officer in the case. He has confirmed to News24 that the criminal investigation into Breytenbach is ongoing and has asked members of the public with information that can assist the case to contact him on 082 729 8155 or 021 590 1001.News24 is continuing its investigation into Breytenbach. If you have information about him or his whereabouts, send an email to tips@24.com.News24 is owned by Media24, a division of Naspers.