It was nine nightmarish months of
her life. A shattered pelvis, a fractured arm and being confined to a wheelchair
– all of that Portia Mavhungu could handle, but what almost broke her was her
complete loss of independence. She couldn’t even go to the loo on her own. “My mother and my grandmother had
to lift me off the wheelchair and put me onto the toilet seat,” she tells us. The
indignity of it all sent her spiralling into a deep depression and she counted her
lucky stars when her body finally healed, and she was able to walk again. But if nine months felt like an
eternity to her, what about people who are permanently wheelchair-bound, she
asked herself. Inspired by her own traumatic experience, Portia (31) invented
the Para-Tube, an award-winning seat that fits onto any wheelchair, allowing
people to relieve themselves without needing to be lifted off their chair. READ MORE: Toilet
tender stinks The eco-friendly seat comes with
biodegradable disposable bags and has a centre part that can be pulled out and flipped
up. Once flipped up, users can retrieve the bag from the flipped centre part,
clip it onto the opening created from pulling out the centre and then relieve
themselves. “When you’re done you clip out
the bag, close it and you draw the middle part of the seat back. Once you take
the bag out and seal it, it traps the smell,” the Pretoria resident explains.
It’s discreet and easy to use, but the thing she’s most proud of is just how
comfortable the chair is. “It’s as if you’re sitting on a La-Z-Boy (recliner
chair),” she says. She wishes her invention had been
available to her after her own devastating accident. In 2011 Portia was lucky
to escape death when she fell from a high building in Durban. The details of
the accident are too traumatic for her to rehash, she says.  When I was young they said I was stupid because I failed grade 10 but no 1 asked why,when I innovated at the age of 22 they laughed and said it will never work but they never asked how , today I have achieved many awards they never asked why ,after sleeping on streets and in waredrops and in friends houses,today a year ago I recieved commercialisation funding, today 11 years ago I finally recievd funding to study,today 10 months ago I recieved novelty on my product ,today a week ago we started exmination patenting in SA, USA,China and today 21 years ago I am stitting in class with a lady I admire and respect who brought knowledge and determination to my life. Life does not give up on us we give up on life. Know your worth,live your passion and love yourself. A post shared by  portia Refilwe Mavhungu (@portia_mavhungu) on Oct 15, 2019 at 10:33am PDT  Her injuries were so bad she had
to spend two months in hospital. After she was released it took seven months before
she could get her life back and start walking again. During this time, she had
to go on antidepressants because she felt so low about her loss of
independence. But there was one thing that kept her going during this dark time
– an idea that had sparked in her brain. On paper one day she’d sketched a design
for an invention she believed could put an end to the daily humiliation that
millions of wheelchair-bound people are forced to endure. Dreaming up the Para-Tube was one
thing but getting it off the page and into development was something else
entirely. Portia wasn’t able to find any local interest in producing the chair,
so she turned to an American company. “They wanted me to pay $6 000
(then about R56 000) for my prototype. I didn’t even earn a quarter of that,”
says Portia, who was a corporate office technician for a telecommunications
company at that time. Yet she refused to give up on her
dream. In 2014 she went to the Union Buildings in Pretoria, collected email addresses
of ministerial personal assistants and emailed all of them, requesting funding.
She was bowled over to receive a response from the department of science and
technology a day later, referring her to the Technology Innovation Agency
(TIA), an agency that supports technological innovation. “Eleven months after I sent my
application to the TIA, I received R1 million funding.” Through the TIA, Portia met
engineers and scientists at Vaal University of Technology, who turned her
initially complex design into a simple, low-tech product. The prototype was
ready in 2016. Portia then partnered with lawyer Darushna Chellan (25) and
together they started a company, PRD Logical Solutions, to produce the seat. And this year it got a welcome
boost in the form of funding to the tune of R5 million from the Industrial
Development Corporation. They’re currently in the process of manufacturing 20
seats, which will be taken for field testing. A lot of scientific thought goes
into the creation of each chair. “Every seat can be customised according
to the person’s usage, because your spine, weight and height matter – so all of
that is taken into consideration,” Portia explains. READ MORE: Disabled
teen excels in international sport: ‘Nothing can stop me!’ The existing seat of a wheelchair
is removed and replaced permanently with The Para-Tube, which clips on. It’s so
simple, Portia says, that clients can do it themselves. But before they can go
into mass production, they need to get approval from the South African Bureau
of Standards and the South African Medical Council. Once that happens, they’ll
be able to start selling their product locally and internationally. Portia says
they’re hoping to launch in January. Her invention is all the more remarkable
when you consider what was going on in her private life while she was trying to
get it off the ground. During the initial stages of the development Portia
lived with her mother, Anna, a domestic worker, on the property of her
employer, Neelavathy Kolapen, in Lenasia. Portia was very close to
Neelavathy and regarded her as an honorary grandmother – she was the one who
helped lift her to the loo when she was confined to a wheelchair. So, she was
devastated in 2014 when Neelavathy died a few months after undergoing a
hip-replacement operation. In 2017 there was more tragedy
when Portia’s mom lost her battle with cancer. While her mother was struggling
with the disease, Portia quit her job to concentrate on developing the
Para-Tube. But as her quest to get it into
development intensified, she had to make a lot of sacrifices. She even slept
under a tree next to a police station on one occasion to be early for a meeting
the next day. As soon as she received her grant things got easier on the
financial front; she recently moved into a new two-bedroom home in Centurion
after having lived with her girlfriend Tazlynn Adams (23) and her family for
two years. But she hasn’t forgotten how it
feels to struggle and have people ridiculing her because of her invention. “I
know the feeling of being laughed at,” she says. “People even called it the
sh** toilet.” But now, after almost nine years of persistence, she’s having the
last laugh. Her innovative product has earned
her multiple awards and may change many lives. READ MORE: 5
inspirational female entrepreneurs in the media 