TWO murder suspects were sentenced to 30 years each at the Greytown Magistrate’s Court for the murder of Nathi Makhoba (20), who was bashed to death with an iron golf club on December 31, 2018. Siphesihle Makhoba(20) and Nthando Zondi(20), from eMatimatolo, were accused for Makhoba’s brutal murder. They appeared in court on October 29 and were convicted of murder. During the trial, the state prosecutor at the Regional Court described Makhoba’s murder as a “senseless killing”. According to the information from the court, both accused had accosted Makhoba in the presence of his girlfriend. The suspects started beating him with an iron golf club. The motive for the attack was not known. The state submitted that the accused should be sentenced to life imprisonment, adding that there was sufficient evidence to prove that the accused had acted in common purpose with each other. The Regional Court magistrate, in his ruling, said there was still hope of rehabilitation for the accused due to their young ages. In another story, the Greytown Regional Court sentenced three suspects Bongamandla Zondi (21), Thulani Zakwe (21) and Thandokuhle Zakwe (21) to 30 years’ imprisonment each for the murder of Sanele Dladla (22) at the Msinga area. Dladla was stoned to death in Msinga after a traditional function that had been held in the area. The court heard that there had been an altercation during the function between the accused and a few of the local boys. “After the function, all three accused followed the deceased and his two friends [who were with him] and attacked them. Two of his friends managed to escape. During the sentencing proceedings, the state prosecutor argued that Dladla (deceased) “had during the earlier altercation that occurred at the function tried to disperse the two groups”. The state also argued that youngsters such as the three accused “are creating a state of anarchy in the country”. “As a result of these brutal murders we are being frowned upon by the international community. These sentences come in the wake of violence and murder reaching endemic proportions. The courts are dealing with these matters with the full might of the law behind them,” prosecutor said.