Khartoum
– Sudanese authorities on Tuesday filed new charges against ousted leader Omar
al-Bashir and some of his aides for "plotting" the 1989 coup that
brought him to power, the country's protest movement said. Bashir, who was a brigadier at
the time, seized power in an Islamist-backed coup that toppled the then-elected
government of prime minister Sadiq al-Mahdi. But Bashir himself was ousted by
the army, in April, after months of nationwide protests against his iron-fisted
rule of three decades. He has already been jailed since,
but on Tuesday authorities filed a separate case against him and several of his
aides for the 1989 coup. "Arrest warrants have been
issued against all military and civilian members who plotted and carried out
the 1989 coup," the legal committee of the protest movement Forces of
Freedom and Change (FFC) said in a statement. Sudan's ex-president Bashir charged with corruption, appearing in public for first time since coup Sudan's ex-president Bashir charged with corruption, appearing in public for first time since coup It said arrest warrants and
travel bans were issued against Bashir, and other top figures of his regime,
such as Nafa Ali Nafa, Ali Osman Taha and Ibrahim al-Sanousi. The authorities have also issued an
arrest warrant against Ali al-Haj, a senior leader from the Islamist Popular
Congress Party, which was an ally of Bashir's government. New arrest warrants issued Like Bashir, Nafa and Taha are
already in prison, while Sanousi and Haj are still free. The FFC said the prosecutors
informed them of the new arrest warrants and travel ban against Bashir and
others during a meeting earlier on Tuesday. A source in the prosecutor's
office confirmed to AFP that new arrest warrants had been issued against Bashir
and his aides. The Sudanese Professionals
Association, which is part of the umbrella protest movement and initially
spearheaded the campaign against Bashir, also posted the FFC statement on
Twitter. If found guilty, the accused could
face the death penalty or life imprisonment under Sudanese law. Bashir is also wanted by The
Hague-based International Criminal Court for genocide, war crimes and crimes
against humanity for his alleged role in the war in Darfur. He
is currently on trial in a Sudanese court for illegally acquiring and using
foreign funds. Sudan is now ruled by a joint
civilian and military sovereign council, which is tasked with overseeing the
country's transition to a civilian rule, as demanded by the protest movement. 