“The human environment committee of the Green Point Ratepayers’ and Residents’ Association (GPRRA) is committed to uplift and empower homeless people in a compassionate way.” These are the words of GPPRA chairperson Elizabeth Knight after the association managed to secure identity smart cards for 70 people through a fundraising drive. Knight said the initiative was done so that beneficiaries could be offered employment opportunities through the City of Cape Town’s Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP) and apply for social grants. “With the eventual goal of the social workers at Safe Space (a place where homeless people are accommodated) to encourage reuniting families or find alternative suitable accommodation for the residents,” Knight said. She said when Safe Space was opened last year, members of the committee engaged with social workers to assist in a positive way; the acquisition of identity cards (IDs). Knight said: “So far, 70 people have benefitted from this initiative and more will benefit as more funding comes in.” Donations for the project come from residents and businesses in Green Point. “A total of R9260 was raised for the 70 identity cards. There is a continued demand so the association is looking for more donations,” she said. Knight said the initiative had two phases, they both took two weeks to raise the amount. She said the third phase had just been launched. “The managers at Safe Space took approximately a month to get temporary IDs after each donation was handed to them,” she said. She said that this kind of project is an effective and definitive way to give responsibly and to support a worthwhile initiative that is handled effectively and efficiently. “Donating R140 per ID is a tangible way of ensuring that you will contribute towards the upliftment of a homeless person,” Knight explained. She said the association was constantly looking for donations and encouraged citizens to continue donating. She said: “Each donor will receive detailed progress reports regarding donations and the securing of IDs.”V For more information contact Elizabeth Knight on 076 597 2650 or email lzbknight@gmail.com.