Constantia businessman Rob Packham was sentenced to an effective 22 years in jail on Wednesday for killing his wife Gill in February 2018 and trying to defeat the ends of justice by setting her car and body alight. Western Cape High Court Judge Elize Steyn imposed 20 years for the murder charge and four years for the second charge, of which two years were suspended. She found there were many aggravating factors to justify a sentence higher than the minimum of 15 years for murder. These included the excessive degree of violence that Packham, 58, displayed, his lack of remorse and attempts he made to cover his tracks. His legal team told News24 they first needed to consult with their client and obtain instructions before deciding whether to appeal. Here are six quotes that provide some insight into Judge Steyn's sentencing of Packham: 1) Motive "The court has speculated that there may have been an argument where the deceased possibly exhibited and voiced well-justified trust issues, threatening according to the accused, to address these issues with the CEO of his company, which would have undoubtedly been embarrassing to him or this may have threatened his employment; but since he has steadfastly refrained from being open with the court, his actions might also have been motivated by selfishness or self-indulgent reasons to get his own way." 2) No remorse "When the matter was investigated, he conducted himself in an arrogant, controlling, disdainful, disinterested and uncooperative manner towards the police. He has not shown any remorse for his actions and, in fact, neither did he display any remorse, grief or trauma at the death of his wife." 3) Violent betrayal of trust "The murder was callous, brutal and shocking. She must have died a painful and gruesome death, suffering extreme shock and horror during the last moments of her life realising what was happening and who her attacker was before succumbing to death." 4) Covering tracks "Instead of seeking medical attention and contacting the police, the accused allowed the deceased to die before attempting to cover up his despicable deed while pretending to look for her." 5) Impact on loved ones "The loss of the deceased has left a hole in the lives of those who were close to her, her daughters, family and friends - all individuals who will never again have the pleasure, support and comfort of the presence of the deceased. Her death means she is no longer able to do the things she enjoyed neither will she have the joy of special occasions in her children's lives." 6) Aggravating factors "... There are ample reasons for the court to increase the minimum prescribed sentence. As recorded, his conduct was morally reprehensible in numerous respects and the aggravating features so extreme and shocking that, in my view, outweighs his personal circumstances and the few factors which may have been regarded as mitigating factors."  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter