 Rain is expected overnight on Thursday in the Western Cape ahead of a cold front, bringing with it cold morning temperatures. Warnings issued by the South African Weather Service Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over the Central Karoo of the Western Cape, the north-western and northern parts of the Eastern Cape, the central and eastern parts of the Northern Cape as well as the western parts of both the North West and the Free State. Gale force north-westerly winds of 65-70km/h are expected along the coastal areas between Table Bay and Cape Agulhas. Watches Localised flooding is expected in places in the City of Cape Town and the south-western parts of the Cape Winelands on Thursday night into Friday morning. High seas with waves of between 6 and 7m are expected between Slangkop and Cape Agulhas Bay on Thursday evening, subsiding late on Friday night. Special weather advisories Strong north-westerly winds are expected in the Karoo Hoogland, the Hantam administrative area in the Northern Cape, the Central Karoo and Breede Valley in the Western Cape, the Naude Local Municipality in Graaff Reinet, the Chris Hani District Municipality, the Walter Sisulu Local Municipality and the Senqu Local Municipality in the Eastern Cape on Thursday and Friday. Very cold conditions are expected over the Hantam and Karoo Hoogland in the Northern Cape as well as the Cape Winelands and Overberg District in the Western Cape on Friday. The weather in your region It will be partly cloudy and cool in Gauteng, becoming fine. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate. Mpumalanga will be cloudy with morning fog patches along the escarpment. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool to warm. It will be cloudy with fog along the escarpment of Limpopo. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and cool. It will be warm in the extreme western parts of the North West. Otherwise, it will be fine, windy and cool but partly cloudy in the north-east with morning fog patches in the east. Fog patches are expected in the north-eastern parts of the Free State at first. Otherwise, it will be fine, windy and cool but partly cloudy in the north-east with morning fog patches. Morning fog is expected along the coast of the Northern Cape at first. Otherwise, it will be fine, cool and windy, but cold over the southern interior. It will become cloudy along the coast and adjacent interior from evening. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate. Morning fog patches are expected along the south-west coast of the Western Cape. It will become partly cloudy. Otherwise, it will be fine, cool and windy. It will become cloudy in the west from evening with rain setting in over the south-western parts overnight. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. The expected UVB index will be moderate. The Eastern Cape is expected to be cloudy with isolated early morning showers along the south-western coast. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool, but partly cloudy, windy and cool in the north. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong. Morning fog is expected in places over the interior of KwaZulu-Natal. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool but warm in places in the east. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate.  Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days