While Thursday will be fine and cool to warm over most of the country, the South African Weather Service warns that Friday will be very cold and very wet in places. Heavy rain that can lead to localised flooding is expected over the Cape Winelands, Overberg and Cape Metropole of the Western Cape on Friday into Saturday morning. High seas with wave heights of 6 m to 7.5 m is expected between Cape Columbine and Cape Agulhas from Friday evening, spreading to Port Elizabeth on Saturday morning, subsiding from the west by the afternoon. Gale force north-westerly winds (60km/h to 75km/h, gusting at 80km/h to 100km/h) are expected in places over the Karoo Hoogland (Northern Cape), Central Karoo, Breede Valley, Cape Peninsula and coastal regions between Table Bay and Plettenberg Bay on Friday. Strong westerly to north-westerly winds (40km/h to 60km/h) are expected over the Hantam municipality of the Northern Cape, southern West Coast district, Overberg  and Garden Route districts of the Western Cape on Friday, spreading to the western half of the Eastern Cape on Saturday. Very cold conditions are expected in places over the southern Namakwa District of the Northern Cape, as well as Cape Winelands and Central Karoo of the Western Cape on Saturday. The weather in your region Gauteng: Fine and cool.Mpumalanga: Partly cloudy along the escarpment, otherwise fine and cool but warm in the Lowveld. Limpopo: Cloudy in the east with morning fog patches along the escarpment, otherwise partly cloudy and cool to warm but fine in the west and south-west. North West: Fine and cool. Free State: Fine and cool.Northern Cape: Cool over the southern interior, otherwise fine and warm.The wind along the coast will be light to moderate southerly to south-easterly. Western Cape: Partly cloud and warm, but cool in places over the south-west.The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh north-westerly along the south-western coastline, otherwise light and variable, but south-easterly along the west coast in the morning.Eastern Cape: Partly cloudy and warm over the western half, becoming cloudy in the south in the afternoon.The wind along the coast will be light to moderate north westerly, becoming north easterly in the afternoon. Cool in the north of the eastern half, otherwise fine and warm, but partly cloudy in the west. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh north easterly, but moderate north westerly in the south during the morning. KwaZulu-Natal: Partly cloudy with morning fog over the eastern interior, otherwise fine and cool but warm in the north-east.The wind along the coast will be moderate easterly to north easterly freshening in places at times.  Temperatures in your region       