They were frantic when Dean went missing – then his
bullet-riddled body was found in a pauper’s grave. His clothes hang neatly in his cupboard and his many
sneakers are meticulously lined up, just as he left them. It feels as if Dean
Jafta could burst through the door at any moment – but after months of
heartache his family have finally accepted he’s never coming back. “When we
miss him I just take his takkies and I smell them,” his sister Candice tells
us. “They smell like him.” When Dean (20) vanished without a
trace in May 2017, his family remained hopeful he’d return home someday. But
unbeknown to them, while they spent 18 months fruitlessly searching for him,
Dean was dead and buried in a pauper’s grave at Olifantsvlei Cemetery in
Johannesburg. It was only in November last year that they discovered the
awful truth. It turned out that a few days after his disappearance Dean’s
lifeless body was found in an open field in the Midrand area, pierced with
eight bullet wounds. Police were unable to establish his identity so in August
2017 he was buried. After the burial, investigators remained intent on finding
out who was responsible for the mystery man’s murder. As they reviewed evidence found at the Midrand field they
were eventually able to establish a link between the dead “pauper” and Dean.
Quizzed by DRUM, they were reluctant to reveal what this evidence was because
of an ongoing court case. But once they’d made the connection they were finally
able to inform Dean’s family. His father, Denzil, will never forget the day he
was summoned to a meeting with the commander of the Tshwane East cluster,
General Andre Wiese. “When they told us Dean had passed on I went berserk,”
Denzil tells DRUM at his home in Eersterust, Pretoria. After his meeting with
the police he had the grim task of identifying his son from pictures taken at
the crime scene. Then, determined to give Dean a dignified funeral, he and his
family had to go through the trauma of having his body exhumed. As Dean’s remains were removed from the soil they saw he
hadn’t been buried alone but was sharing a grave with other unidentified
corpses. It was all too much to take in. Now almost three months later, Denzil
(55) is still traumatised and angry. “I don’t have closure,” he says. “That
skeleton I’ve buried, I can’t tell you if that’s Dean. I buried bones; I didn’t
bury my son.” D ENZIL’S eyes well up with tears as he watches the video on his
daughter’s phone. In the clip a little boy can be heard chortling. It’s Dean’s
son, Caydrian Stalie (1). “He’s just like Dean. When I look at Caydrian, I see
Dean,” Denzil says. Just a week after Dean’s disappearance on 19 May 2017, his
girlfriend told the Jafta family she was pregnant. Denzil was shocked by the
news but over the past 21 months the toddler has been the family’s one source
of joy. Denzil sits between his two daughters, Candice (18) and
Michelle (28), wearing a white T-shirt with a picture of Dean on it. “Justice
for Dean” read the words emblazoned in bright red above the photo. “He was a
humble, loyal and respectful child,” says Denzil, who’s a process engineer for
a car manufacturer. The last time he saw his son was three days before his
disappearance. Dean, who lived with Candice and Michelle just a few kilometres
away, had come around to his dad’s house to mow the lawn. Dean was studying information
technology and often did odd jobs for his dad to earn pocket money. “We were
talking and he said to me, ‘Don’t forget my money’. And I said, ‘You’ll get it
on Friday’.” On the Friday Denzil received an SMS from Dean, reminding him
about the money. But when he tried calling his son his phone was off. When
Dean failed to return home that evening his family were immediately worried. It
wasn’t like him not to let them know his whereabouts. Two days later their
fears intensified when his car was found near Akasia in Pretoria. Phone records
showed he’d been on his way to meet a friend that day. As the weeks dragged by with no sign of his son, Denzil was
determined to solve the mystery. Every day he’d travel through Joburg, taking a
stack of “missing” posters with him featuring his son’s picture. “I put his
picture up as I was travelling to Hillbrow, Parktown, everywhere. I went to
shops in Lenasia, Eldorado Park, and people saw it on Facebook also,” he says. Denzil says although there were times he felt despondent he
couldn’t give up because he was convinced his son was still alive. But on 1
November last year all hope was crushed at the meeting at the Tshwane East
police cluster. There he heard the news that his son’s bullet-riddled body
had been found in a field 18 months earlier. With police unable to establish
his identity, he’d been given a pauper’s burial. It’s since emerged that
certain vital steps may have been omitted. Fingerprint samples were taken from
the body but it seems the investigating officer never checked to see if these
matched other samples on the police system. If he had, he would have discovered they matched Dean’s DNA
which police had sourced from his toothbrush and comb. And the family would’ve
been spared so many months of agonising waiting. Once Denzil finally knew what
had happened it fell to him to break the news to his daughters and Dean’s
mother, Christa Heraud (52). The couple separated a while back and she now
works as a nurse in Saudi Arabia. Dean’s body was exhumed two weeks later, a day before his
family finally buried him. Four men were subsequently arrested in connection
with the murder. They appeared in the Pretoria magistrate’s court last month
but the case was postponed to 6 March pending further investigation. Denzil
says for a while before Dean’s disappearance he’d been concerned about him. At the beginning of 2017 Dean was arrested after police
pulled over a car in which he was travelling with friends who were suspected of
criminal activity. But he wasn’t charged. Eersterust community leader Novina
Pillay says Dean was a good kid who got involved with the wrong crowd. But she
adds this doesn’t make him a criminal. “We stay in a small community. For Dean to have interacted
with these guys is nothing new. Everybody knows everybody. It’s people we grew
up with.” Now more than anything, Denzil wants to understand why his child was
murdered. He won’t be able to find closure until he has answers. “I won’t give
up until I know the truth,” he says. WHAT THE POLICE SAY Dean Jafta’s body was found on 25 May 2017 and was buried in
August 2017, General Andre Wiese, commander at the Tshwane East cluster,
confirmed. “It can take months to bury the body of a pauper.”  He adds that a thorough record is kept of
where the body is buried and in which coffin. 
“So if the body is identified, we know where to find it.” He says within two hours of being ex­humed in November,
Dean’s body was taken for DNA testing before being released to the Jafta family
to be buried. “We know the body is Dean’s but need to prove it as part of the
formalities, with the DNA results which will be released in the court case.” The original investigating officer was neg­ligent in trying
to establish the identity of the body, he says, adding that an internal investi­gation
is under way. “The police helped the family since day one with everything they
needed. Yes, something went wrong initially, but we’re addressing it,” he says.