It will be a foggy start to the week in parts of South Africa. Other areas will experience fine and warm weather, according to the South African Weather Service. The weather in your province Gauteng will have morning fog patches in places, otherwise it will be fine and cool. The expected UVB sunburn index is moderate. Morning fog patches can be expected on the Highveld of Mpumalanga and along the escarpment, otherwise it will be fine and cool but warm in the Lowveld. Limpopo will also have morning fog patches in places, otherwise partly cloudy and cool to warm, becoming fine. It will be fine and cool in the North West and Free State. In the Northern Cape it will be warm in the north-west, otherwise fine and cool but cloudy and cold in the west and south where it will become partly cloudy. Evening fog is expected along the coast. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate northerly to north-westerly, becoming southerly to south-easterly north of Hondeklip Bay by the afternoon. It will be cloudy to partly cloudy and cold to cool with light rain over the western and south-western parts of the Western Cape. Otherwise it will be fine and cool, with evening fog along the west coast and adjacent interior. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong north-westerly, becoming light to moderate north of Table Bay and east of Cape Agulhas by the afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index is low. In the Eastern Cape it will be fine and cool, becoming partly cloudy. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate south-westerly. KwaZulu- Natal will be fine and warm but cool in places in the south-west. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh northerly to north-easterly, becoming gentle to moderate from the south in the afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index is moderate. Temperatures in your city: Kwazulu Natal Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 10.6.2019 pic.twitter.com/azVJ5iZYJh  Gauteng Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 10.6.2019 pic.twitter.com/iAkuaeYt8d  Eastern Cape Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 10.6.2019 pic.twitter.com/5LMU7RbDLx  Western Cape Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 10.6.2019 pic.twitter.com/QnjoR9zjTA  Northern Cape Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 10.6.2019 pic.twitter.com/D58yqJAq1u  Limpopo Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 10.6.2019 pic.twitter.com/zKMgYETBCI  Mpumalanga Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 10.6.2019 pic.twitter.com/zKxCFdMbae  North West Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 10.6.2019 pic.twitter.com/lM5DYMn3T0  Free State Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 10.6.2019 pic.twitter.com/em9MfUYREd  Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days.