THE MOTHER of an 18-year-old girl wants answers from Home Affairs as to what the hold up is with regards her child’s unabridged birth certificate that she applied for last year. Zodwa Ntsimbane from Mpumelelo, in France, says she applied for an unabridged birth certificate for her daughter, Andiswa (18), last October but to date she has not received it. Speaking to Echo, Ntsimbane said the problems started when she went to the Home Affairs Offices in Church Street in 2017 to apply for her child’s identity document but she was told that she must go and apply for it in the Eastern Cape where she was originally born. “I went back to Home Affairs in the Eastern Cape and they told me there was no need for me to come back. However, they helped me apply for the identity document,” she said. “I waited for it for the whole year but I was told that it was still in process. When I went to enquire about it, I was advised that I need to apply for an unabridged birth certificate so that my child can get back her ID because she was still under my mother’s name, her legal guardian, when I applied for it.” Ntsimbane said she then applied for the unabridged birth certificate in the Pietermaritzburg office in October last year. “It has been over six months now and I still have not received the certificate. They keep telling me the same thing every time I enquire; that the application is in process. “My child is in university, and she got approved for National Student Financial Aid System (NSFAS) funding, but she cannot get it because she does not have an ID, therefore she cannot even open a bank account. “This delay might have a negative influence on my daughter’s studying. “What if NSFAS decides to cancel the application and not assist my child with the university fees? How am going to pay for her fees when I cannot afford them? I want answers from Home Affairs. “Andiswa is also not doing well emotionally because of this. What has my child done wrong that none of her things are coming together?” Home Affairs Regional Manger, Xolani Maphumulo did not respond to Echo’s media query at the time of going to print on Wednesday.