THE Zuma family from Sweetwaters say they want answers from Sassa management after their sick and blind grandmother was turned away when she went to renew her pension at Vulindlela offices last month. They say Ellen Zuma (93) did not get paid in May and when they went to inquire at the Sassa office in Vulindlela, they were told that Zuma needs to renew her pension; which is the reason why her pension was not available to her. Speaking to Echo, Zuma’s daughter, Ntombikayise, said they took Zuma to the offices but they were turned away. She said they were told to obtain an affidavit at the police station stating that indeed Zuma was not paid before they could assist her. “My daughter collects my mother’s pension on her behalf. When she first went to Sassa offices she was given a form to fill in and was told that she must bring my mother in to have her fingerprints taken,” said Ntombikayise. “She tried to explain to them that she is blind and she is very sick and frail and will not make it to the offices because she can not even sit properly, but they insisted.” We wanted this sorted out so we hired a car and took my mother to Sassa offices but she was turned away without getting help.” She said the family has run out of options as they have been trying to sort out the problem since last month with no progress. “We do not have money now to hire a car and my mother is very sick and is in no state to travel and wait in long queues at Sassa offices,” she Ntombikayise. “When we brought her in we had hope that they will help her and this will be resolved. “My mother did not get paid for June as well and is unable to pay for medication. She relies on her monthly pension. “Our neighbours are providing meals for us as we can’t buy food.” Echo made several attempts to contact Sassa spokesperson Mbizeni Mdlalose, via email and telephone for comment, but none was forthcoming at the time of going to print “We do not have the money now to hire the car and my mother is very sick and is in no state to travel and wait in the long queue at Sassa offices,”