The South African National Editors' Forum (Sanef) has announced its support for the constitutional challenge brought by investigate journalist unit amaBhungane against current South African surveillance law, and the RICA Act specifically. Legal proceedings against the Regulation of Interception of Communications and Provision of Communication Related Information Act (RICA) were started in April 2017 by amaBhungane after receiving confirmation that its managing partner, Sam Sole, had been the target of state surveillance under RICA. Sole was investigating the decision by the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) to drop corruption charges against former president Jacob Zuma at the time. This was not, however, the first or last alleged attempt by the state to use intelligence, state security and the provisions of RICA to target journalists. In 2018, the Right2Know Campaign produced a report, "SPOOKED: Surveillance of Journalists in SA", documenting the numerous instances where prominent journalists had allegedly been the target of state surveillance. "The secretive and unaccountable surveillance provisions of RICA leave it wide open to abuse and poses a chilling effect on media freedom and accountability journalism in South Africa," Sanef said in a statement on Tuesday. Cases of surveillance The following cases, in addition to Sole's, are cited by amaBhungane and the friends of the court, Right2Know and Privacy International, in their papers: The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation’s (Unesco) 2017 report "Protecting journalism sources in the digital age" found that, globally, journalism was increasingly under threat from laws which don't protect journalists' sources from the dragnet of mass surveillance and indiscriminate data collection. AmaBhungane’s legal challenge is a first and significant step in addressing the concerns raised in the Unesco report. The challenge is being heard in the Gauteng High Court in Pretoria before Judge Roland Sutherland from Tuesday. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  