Heavy rain continues over parts of the Western Cape, while widespread showers will move along the south coast on Saturday. Most of the country is expected to experience cold temperatures, according to the South African Weather Service. Warnings Heavy rain leading to localised flooding is expected over the Cape Winelands, Overberg district, and Cape Metropole in the Western Cape on Saturday morning. Gale to strong gale force westerly to south-westerly winds (65-90km/h, gusts 90-100km/h) are expected along the coastal regions between Cape Agulhas and Port Alfred. A storm surge is expected between Saldanha Bay and Plettenberg Bay. High seas with waves as high as 6 to 9m are expected between Cape Columbine and Plettenberg Bay. Watches Heavy rain leading to localised flooding is expected over the Garden Route in the Western Cape. Special weather advisories Very cold conditions are expected in places over the southern Namakwa District in the Northern Cape, as well as the Cape Winelands and Central Karoo in the Western Cape on Saturday.  The weather in your region It will be fine and cool in Gauteng. The expected UVB sunburn index will be low. Mpumalanga will be fine and cool, but warm in the Lowveld. It will be fine and cool, but warm in the eastern parts of Limpopo. It will become partly cloudy in the north from the afternoon. It will be fine and cool in the North West and Free State. It will be cloudy and cold in the Northern Cape, with rain in the morning over the southern interior. Snow is expected on the southern high-ground, where it will be very cold. Otherwise, it will be fine and cold. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. Early morning thundershowers are expected over the south-western parts of the Western Cape, as well as along the south coast in the evening. Otherwise, it will be cloudy and cold with isolated to scattered showers and thundershowers. Widespread showers are expected along the south coast. Gale force winds are expected along the coast. The expected UVB sunburn index will be low. The Eastern Cape is expected to be fine. It will be windy, but cold and cool at first. It will become partly cloudy and warm, with isolated showers and thundershowers. Widespread showers are expected along the coast. The wind along the coast will be strong, reaching gale force. It will be fine and cool, but warm in the eastern parts of KwaZulu-Natal. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. The expected UVB index will be moderate.  Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days