Hundreds of families, women and children were left homeless after Law Enforcement’s anti-land invasion unit was allegedly deployed to Capricorn to break down illegal structures. Residents were allegedly forced out of their homes at 12:00 on Friday 24 May as Law Enforcement entered the area to evict and tear down the structures that were allegedly built illegally on proclaimed reserve piece of land. Erica Layters, a disgruntled resident, claimed people were told they could use the land to build their homes. “Now that the elections are finished, they’re telling the people to throw the houses down. They don’t do anything for this community,” said Layters. Fellow resident Sharon Strong enquired: “The Law Enforcement said they received a letter from court, that they have the right to come break these hokkies down, so why didn’t they show the people”. Malusi Booi, Mayco member for human settlements, claimed the City previously liaised with residents and requested their illegally erected structures to be removed. “The City has acted within the parameters of the law as it pertains to removing illegally erected vacant structures,” Booi said. Residents who invade land often do so on unsuitable land which means they are affected by lack of services, fires, floods and health and safety risks according to Booi. Layters feels that there are more pressing issues to be dealt with. “Why don’t they stop the crime in the community – the crime and the drugs – instead of coming to throw down the people’s houses,” she said. Vrygrond Community Development Forum’s Isaac Goliat claims Law Enforcement used violence to achieve their goals of removing the structures. “They didn’t inform us; they just came in here with no name tags and started taking down the buildings. They just came into the house, beat people and kicked people out,” says Goliat, adding that due to the size of the structures it took five hours to be demolished. Ashwin Albert, a resident whose home was demolished, feared for his son and was disheartened by the manner used to take down his home. “When they came, I just begged them to let me take it down myself, just so I could take it apart nicely and they didn’t care,” Albert said. The City has reported that they will be spending R 2.7bn over the next three years on human settlements in informal settlements such as Vrygrond and Capricorn, among others. The residents of Capricorn, however, are less than convinced. “They come here for elections and tell us we can build and when elections are over, they don’t do anything for us,” said resident Candice Layters. Hundreds of families, women and children were left homeless after Law Enforcement’s anti-land invasion unit was allegedly deployed to Capricorn to break down illegal structures. Residents were allegedly forced out of their homes at 12:00 on Friday 24 May as Law Enforcement entered the area to evict and tear down the structures that were allegedly built illegally on proclaimed reserve piece of land. Erica Layters, a disgruntled resident, claimed people were told they could use the land to build their homes. “Now that the elections are finished, they’re telling the people to throw the houses down. They don’t do anything for this community,” said Layters. Fellow resident Sharon Strong enquired: “The Law Enforcement said they received a letter from court, that they have the right to come break these hokkies down, so why didn’t they show the people”. Malusi Booi, Mayco member for human settlements, claimed the City previously liaised with residents and requested their illegally erected structures to be removed. “The City has acted within the parameters of the law as it pertains to removing illegally erected vacant structures,” Booi said. Residents who invade land often do so on unsuitable land which means they are affected by lack of services, fires, floods and health and safety risks according to Booi. Layters feels that there are more pressing issues to be dealt with. “Why don’t they stop the crime in the community – the crime and the drugs – instead of coming to throw down the people’s houses,” she said. Vrygrond Community Development Forum’s Isaac Goliat claims Law Enforcement used violence to achieve their goals of removing the structures. “They didn’t inform us; they just came in here with no name tags and started taking down the buildings. They just came into the house, beat people and kicked people out,” says Goliat, adding that due to the size of the structures it took five hours to be demolished. Ashwin Albert, a resident whose home was demolished, feared for his son and was disheartened by the manner used to take down his home. “When they came, I just begged them to let me take it down myself, just so I could take it apart nicely and they didn’t care,” Albert said. The City has reported that they will be spending R 2.7bn over the next three years on human settlements in informal settlements such as Vrygrond and Capricorn, among others. The residents of Capricorn, however, are less than convinced. “They come here for elections and tell us we can build and when elections are over, they don’t do anything for us,” said resident Candice Layters.