A video of a motorist clocking 322km/h on the R21 in Johannesburg has had social media users in a spin. The video was shared on Twitter by anti-crime activist Yusuf Abramjee on Saturday and has since been retweeted by 1 700 others. In the post, Abramjee writes: "Video as received: R21 JHB. This madness must be stopped!" The clip shows a motorist picking up from 179km/h driving towards OR Tambo International Airport when a motorbike, also seemingly speeding, starts approaching the vehicle. It is unclear when the video was taken but the time on the screen displaying the speed shows 16:08. A voice from someone inside the vehicle is heard instructing the driver in Afrikaans to allow the motorbike to ride past and then to catch up. "Laat hom gaan, laat hom gaan, dan gaan haal jy hom" (let him go, let him go, then go after him) the man says to the driver. Shortly after the motorbike overtakes the vehicle, it is seen picking up speed from 298km/h and as it speeds past the biker, someone in the car is heard laughing and says the motorbike driver is in a hurry. In the tweet, Abramjee tagged Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula and the Road Traffic Management Corporation. Some tweeps were impressed with the speedster, stating that the vehicle was indeed travelling at high speed if it managed to overtake a speeding motorbike. "I want that car, can someone please tell me what car is that" and "This video is lit though" were some of the responses from what seemed to be impressed users.  Others voiced concern over safety for other road users and called for the speedsters' licences to be revoked. "I dnt feel comfortable on 140km/hr and some hit 322km/hr just like tht. problem is ppl never visit Hospitals, a car is more dangerous than guns," user @Lucky_Komane replied. Meanwhile, the Ekurhuleni Metro Police Department (EMPD) has condemned the act, saying the slightest mistake could have led to a fatal accident. "This irresponsible and dangerous behaviour can never be tolerated by EMPD hence we have a High Speed Unit that tackles such (incidents)," EMPD spokesperson Wilfred Kgasago said. He said drivers caught doing 200km/h and above would be arrested with no bail granted until court appearance after 48 hours.