 Extremely high fires danger conditions are expected in places over the north-eastern part of the Free State, southern highveld of Mpumalanga,  and the north-western part of KwaZulu-Natal; while snowfall is expected in places over the southern high ground of the Northern Cape, northern high ground of the Eastern Cape, extreme southern parts of  the Free State. Gale force south-westerly to westerly winds of above 65km/h is expected in places between Plettenberg Bay and Cape St Francis spreading east   from afternoon and reaching East London by evening.  Warnings provided by the South African Weather Service.   The weather in your region Gauteng is expected to be fine, windy and cold but cool in the Tshwane metropolitan. The expected UVB sunburn index: Very high. Mpumalanga will be fine, windy and cool, but warm to hot in the Lowveld, while fine and warm weather is expected in Limpopo. North West will be fine, windy and cool, while the Free State is expected to be partly cloudy, windy and cold with isolated showers or light snowfall in the extreme south where it will be cloudy at times and very cold. It will clear from the west in the afternoon. Northern Cape should expect partly cloudy, windy and cold conditions, but very cold in the south with isolated showers over the western parts and very light snowfalls on the southern  high ground in the morning. It will clear from the west in the afternoon.The wind along the coast will be fresh north-westerly, becoming moderate to fresh south-westerly in the afternoon Western Cape: Cloudy and cold with rain and showers in the west spreading along the south coast and adjacent interior in the morning, clearing from the west during the afternoon.The wind along the coast will be strong northwesterly but moderate easterly in the south becoming southwesterly in the afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index: low. Eastern Cape: In the western half of the province expect cold to very cold in the north otherwise cloudy and cool with isolated showers. Snow is also expected over the northern mountain peaks.The wind along the coast will be Moderate to fresh south westerly in the early  morning, otherwise moderate to fresh north westerly, becoming strong to  near gale westerly in the afternoon. In the eastern half it should be partly cloudy and cool to cold but very cold in the north where isolated showers and thundershowers are expected. Snowfall expected over the mountain peaks in the north.The wind along the coast will be Light to moderate north westerly, but fresh to strong south of Kei Mouth, becoming fresh to strong westerly from late morning, reaching near gale south of Kei mouth in the afternoon. KwaZulu-Natal: Fine and cool to warm but hot in places in the north-east, becoming partly cloudy to cloudy from the south in the afternoon. Isolated showers and thundershowers are expected over southern and eastern KZN from evening. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh northerly to north- easterly but light westerly to south-westerly south of Durban freshening in the afternoon and spreading northwards.The expected UVB sunburn index: Very high. Temepratures in your region: GAUTENG: Pretoria: 03 21 Johannesburg: 03 17 Vereeniging: 02 17 MPUMALANGA: Nelspruit: 09 28 Ermelo: 05 20 Emalahleni: 04 21 LIMPOPO: Polokwane: 06 24 Phalaborwa: 08 28 Tzaneen: 08 26 NORTH WEST: Klerksdorp: -1 17 Potchefstroom: 0 20 Mafikeng: 03 18 FREE STATE: Bloemfontein: -2 11 Welkom: 02 14 Bethlehem: -4 17 NORTHERN CAPE: Upington: 01 13 Kimberley: -3 17 De Aar: 02 10 WESTERN CAPE: Cape Town: 12 15 Vredendal: 07 16 Riversdale: 08 16 George: 08 16 EASTERN CAPE: Port Elizabeth: 06 18 Grahamstown: 09 16 Cradock: 08 15 Umtata: 08 23 KWAZULU-NATAL: Durban: 15 31 Richard's Bay: 16 31 Pietermaritzburg: 10 29 Ladysmith: 06 29 