A Twitter user seems to think there is a gap in the funeral market and is filling it up by selling second hand coffins. The second hand coffin salesman has caused quite the stir on social media after he shared an advert of a burial box priced at R12 000.00. The price which is said to be “slightly negotiable” in the caption was aimed at “serious buyers only.”  Some tweeps were amused by the post with some simply perceiving it as hoax. Even radio presenter DJ Fresh joined in on the fun, “For 12k can get something brand new and slightly better looking!!! Hoooold on … is that a stain???” he replied to the post.  READ MORE: 'Used'
coffins for sale on Facebook While the advert posted onto Twitter may have been a joke, a similar ad was shared on Facebook this time with the location in Cape Town without contact details.  The post which may look like fun and games to some is actually far from that as families are being scammed, according to executive chairman of the Funeral Industry Reformed Association (Fira), Johan Rousseau. “What we realised from several complaints, is that coffins are in actual fact being exchanged without the knowledge of family members,” he told DRUM. “Instances where there are rental coffin agreements for cremation purposes, the previous coffin which was used for viewing purposes is then sold to another bereaved family unknowingly.” Rousseau added that there was no regulatory body in place to assist families who found themselves in this awkward position. “Second hand coffins not only pose the risk of spreading airborne diseases from the deceased but they are also sold at illicit prices,” he explained.  “Often exploiting the buyers.” Rousseau advised that buyers needed to ensure they received their monies worth by inspecting the condition of the coffin and returning it to the manufacturer if they were unhappy with anything. “If customers felt like they couldn’t handle the matter on their own they should immediately inform FIRA and this matter will be taken to the authorities on their behalf.”        