A massive cold front is expected to bring gale force winds and rain to the Western Cape on Friday. Warnings provided by the South African Weather Service. Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over the central and northern interior of the Eastern Cape, the south-western parts of the North West, the western parts of the Free State and the Central Karoo of the Western Cape. Gale force north-westerly winds of 65-70km/h are expected along the coastal regions between Table Bay and Cape Agulhas of the Western Cape. Watches Localised flooding is expected in the Cape Flats of the City of Cape Town, the south-western parts of the Cape Winelands and the western parts of the Overberg district of the Western Cape in the morning. High seas with wave heights of 6m are expected between Slangkop and Cape Agulhas of the Western Cape. Special weather advisories Strong interior winds of 50-60km/h are expected over the southern parts of the Northern Cape, the northern interior of the Western Cape and the central and northern interior of the Eastern Cape. Very cold conditions are expected over the southern parts of the Northern Cape and northern Cape Winelands of the Western Cape.  The weather in your region It will be fine and cool in Gauteng. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate. Morning fog patches are expected along the escarpment of Mpumalanga. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool but warm in the Lowveld. Morning fog patches are expected in the southern interior of Limpopo. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool to warm. It will be fine and cool but windy in the western parts of both the North West and the Free State. The Northern Cape will be cloudy and cold to very cold over the southern high ground with rain. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy, windy and cool but fine in the east and north. The wind along the coast will be moderate. It will be cloudy and cold to very cold over the western interior of the Western Cape. Isolated to scattered showers and rain are expected in the west, spreading to the eastern parts. It will be windy in some places. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. The expected UVB sunburn index will be low. The Eastern Cape is expected to be windy in the north. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool. It will become cloudy with isolated showers and rain in the south-western parts from the afternoon. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate. It will be fine and cool but warm in the eastern parts of KwaZulu-Natal. The wind along the coast will be moderate. The expected UVB index will be low. Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days