Cold conditions are expected in the morning, while temperatures will increase slightly by Wednesday afternoon. Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over the eastern parts of the Northern Cape and the western parts of the North West, according to the South African Weather Service. A well developed cold front is expected to affect the Western Cape and the Northern Cape on Thursday into Friday. The public and small stock farmers are advised that strong interior winds and gale force north-westerly coastal winds, localised flooding, very rough seas and very cold conditions are possible. Strong winds are expected over the Dr Beyers Naude Local Municipality (Graaff Reinet), the Chris Hani District Municipality, Walter Sisulu Local Municipality and the Senqu Local Municipality in the Eastern Cape by midday on Thursday, subsiding by late afternoon. The weather in your region Morning fog patches are expected in the northern parts of Gauteng. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate. Mpumalanga will be cloudy in the east with morning fog and drizzle along the escarpment. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and cool to cold. It will be cloudy with drizzle and fog along the escarpment of Limpopo. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and cool. The North West will experience morning fog patches in the extreme east. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool, becoming partly cloudy in the central and eastern parts by the afternoon. Morning fog patches are expected in the extreme eastern parts of the Free State. Otherwise, it will be fine and cold to cool, becoming partly cloudy in the afternoon. Isolated showers and thundershowers are expected in the west and along Lesotho border in the afternoon. Fog is expected along the coast and adjacent interior of the Northern Cape. Otherwise, it will be fine and cold to cool. It will become partly cloudy in the southeast, with isolated showers and thundershowers. Fog is expected along the West Coast of the Western Cape. It will be cloudy to partly cloudy over the east and central parts, as well as along the south coast at first. It will be cool but cold in places over the extreme southwest, where it will be partly cloudy. The wind along the coast will be light. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate. The Eastern Cape is expected to be cloudy, with mist in places at first. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and cool, with isolated showers and thundershowers. The wind along the coast will be fresh. It will be cloudy with morning fog over the interior of KwaZulu-Natal at first. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and cool but warm in the north-east, becoming fine in places in the afternoon. The wind along the coast will be gentle. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate.  Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days