Dews of Quietness recently carried out an awareness programme at St Mary’s School in Retreat, and are currently in the process of opening their official safe house for the destitute. On Friday 7 June, Dews of Quietness, the non-profit organisation (NPO) that specialises in victim empowerment, teamed up with the Prison Care and Support Network (PCSN) to deliver an educational programme to learners at the school, in an attempt to create awareness and prevent them from partaking in criminal activities. “The programme went very well. They were touched by it and they recognise that there is a lot of crime in the area – and drugs and gangsterism. Our talk was a deterrent to get them to avoid these things because it does not pay,” said Belinda Low-Shang, board member at the PCSN. This was one of many activations that the NPO and the Network do for school-going children. Moriedah Dien, founding member of the NPO, elaborated on some of their offerings. “We do an anti-bullying programme in the school. If the child has a challenge, we will liaise with whoever the child needs, to find out what is bothering them.” Some of the biggest concerns for the NPO is the drop-out rate of children and so the collaborating organisations held a manhood talk during the programme which educated the boys about how they should act and the consequences of a life of crime. Low-Shang said even the ex-offender who spoke to the children was moved by the segment. Dews of Quietness, while still executing their support programmes, is also setting up a safe house. Dien said: “The safe house is not yet set up, but we have the land. It’s behind Delta Primary School and the safe house will be on the land. The shelter we want to set up is for destitute abused women and children with their siblings. Shelters for the destitute take adults but are not groomed for children.” They currently have one container from which they plan to operate, and are still in need of more resources, says Dien. They are also in need of a new sponsor for their pad donation project. The Dischem Foundation extended their work with the NPO up to two years, but that will come to an end in July. Dien and the other members of the NPO would like nothing more than to help and empower the community. “Whoever comes there is a broken person and we walk the journey to get the help they need. We will journey with them until they’re ready to fly.” V 
  To find out more about Dews of Quietness call 081 382 5967 or email dewsofquietnessnpo@gmail.com. To find out more about Prison Care and Support Network call 021 531 0550 or email prisoncarenetwork@gmail.com.