The Free
State teenager who went missing on Monday 24 June has still not been found. Nikita
Naudé (15) is a Grade 9 pupil at Kroonstad High School and was last seen in the
early hours of Monday morning. Tanya
Fourie, her aunt, says the family hasn’t stopped trying to contact her since
her disappearance – but Nikita’s phone remains switched off. “Nikita’s
phone is [usually] always on – you know what teenagers are like with their
phones,” Tanya told YOU on Friday. A missing
person’s case have been opened and police are investigating. It’s believed
Nikita left with an older man. Captain
Stephen Thakeng, police spokesman, says police are looking for Martinus “Tinus”
Wynand Swanepoel, believed to be in his late thirties or early forties, in
relation to Nikita’s disappearance. Police
suspect Tinus might be in Bloemfontein or on his way there. Earlier
this week, Tanya told YOU that Nikita was seen getting out of a stranger’s car
on Sunday. Nikita had been visiting her grandparents in Steynsrus in the Free
State when she disappeared. “My mom
[Nikita’s grandmother] says Nikita had been spending a lot of time on her phone
before she disappeared,” Tanya says. “On Sunday afternoon she [Nikita] said [to
her grandmother] she was going to sit in the sun outside. When my mom went
looking for her, she couldn’t immediately find her. “[Then]
Nikita was seen getting out of a white hatchback Opel Corsa that was parked across
the road,” Tanya says. She told her grandmother she’d been giving directions to
the man in the car,” says the distraught aunt. “My mom
just said, ‘Sussie, you know you
don’t just get into a car with strangers – you explain at the window.’ She
thought that was the end of that. But on Monday morning at 3am when my dad took
their little dog out, Nikita was gone,” Tanya tells us. Tanya says Nikita’s
mother, Ulandi, is struggling to cope with her daughter’s disappearance. “The
uncertainty drives you crazy. Everyone’s on edge,” Tanya adds. “But I repeat:
Nikita is no rebel.” She
believes her niece wants to come home. “Maybe she wants to contact us but
doesn’t know how. She didn’t have a disagreement with anyone and she didn’t
leave home angry,” Tanya says. “Kita, come
home. We miss you and love you.” Police are
urging anyone with information that could lead to Nikita’s whereabouts to
contact Warrant Officer Karen Dennis on 056 216 5741.