Intense weather conditions are expected for the Western Cape, and parts of the Northern Cape on Friday. Heavy rainfall, high seas, snow, strong winds, as well as a fire danger warning, have been forecast for the Western Cape region, as provided by the South African Weather Service. READ: Disaster risk management on alert as weather warning issued for Cape Town Warnings Gale force north-westerly winds (65-80km/h, gusts 85-90km/h) are expected over the Karoo Hoogland of the Northern Cape, as well as the Central Karoo, Breede Valley, the Cape Peninsula, and the Overberg Districts of the Western Cape on Friday. Heavy rain, leading to localised flooding, is expected over the Cape Winelands, the Overberg, and the Cape Metropole of the Western Cape on Friday evening, into Saturday morning. High seas with wave heights of 6-9mares expected between Cape Columbine and Cape Agulhas from Friday afternoon, spreading to Plettenberg Bay on Saturday morning, subsiding by the afternoon. A storm surge is expected between Saldanha Bay and Cape Agulhas on Friday afternoon, spreading to Plettenberg Bay on Saturday morning. Gale to strong gale force north-westerly winds (65-90km/h, gusts 90-100km/h) are expected along coastal regions between Table Bay and Cape Agulhas on Friday afternoon, spreading to Plettenberg Bay on Saturday morning. Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected in places over the Northern Cape, the Western Cape, the south-western parts of the Free State, as well as the western parts of the Eastern Cape. Watches Gale force south-westerly winds (65 to 75 km/h) are expected along the coast between Storms River and Port Alfred on Saturday. Special weather advisories Strong westerly to north-westerly winds (40-60km/h) are expected in the Hantam Municipality of the Northern Cape, the southern West Coast district, and the Overberg and Garden Route districts of the Western Cape on Friday. It will spread to the western half of the Eastern Cape on Saturday. Very cold conditions are expected in places over the southern Namakwa District of the Northern Cape, as well as the Cape Winelands and the Central Karoo of the Western Cape on Saturday. The weather in your region It will be fine and cool in Gauteng. The expected UVB sunburn index will be low. Mpumalanga will be fine and cool to warm. It will be fine and cool to warm in Limpopo, becoming partly cloudy in the northeast. The North West will be fine and cool. It will be windy in places in the south-western parts of the Free State. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool. The Northern Cape is expected to be fine, cool and windy but warm in the northern interior. It will become cloudy in the west and south west, with isolated showers and thundershowers from the afternoon, with possible light snow in the southern interior. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong. It will be fine and warm, but windy in the Western Cape. It will become cloudy and cool in the west from the afternoon, with widespread rain and showers. Scattered to widespread thundershowers are possible for the south-western parts, while snowfall is expected over the western mountains at night. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong. The expected UVB sunburn index will be low. The Eastern Cape is expected to be fine and warm, with strong interior winds in places. It will become cloudy in the west. The wind along the coast will be moderate. It will be fine and cool but warm in the eastern parts of KwaZulu-Natal. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. The expected UVB sunburn index will be low.  Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days