The Educators' Union of South Africa (EUSA) has called for teachers to be allowed to bring guns to school to protect themselves, The Star reported on Wednesday. The call follows an attack on educator Sboniso Nyawose, 48, who was shot dead on Tuesday morning at Masuku Primary School in Folweni, south of Durban. "The deceased was allegedly shot dead by two random people who had gained unauthorised access to the school premises. This is besides the fact that the school does have a security guard officially employed by the Department of Education," KwaZulu-Natal Education MEC Kwazi Mshengu said on Tuesday, News24 reported.  "[This is] the most painful news I have had to deal with since assuming office," Mshengu said. READ: Violence in SA's schools is worse than you think, and spanking is part of the problem "Reports from the scene allege that an unknown male had entered the school premises and fired multiple shots at a 48-year-old male teacher who was walking down a passage at the time, striking him in the head and abdomen," said Netcare 911 spokesperson Shawn Herbst. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said the shooting occurred at 09:00. "The victim was declared dead at the scene. The circumstances surrounding the incident are being investigated." Allow teachers to bring guns to school According to The Star, EUSA president Scelo Bhengu said it was time that teachers' unions became bold and called for teachers to be allowed to bring guns to school. "We are tired of teachers being killed at schools. Schools are no [longer] safe places for teachers to work. If the Department of Education is not going to respond by making schools safe, then we want teachers [to] have guns to protect themselves," Bhengu reportedly said. ALSO READ: Gangsterism in our schools: Should we not look beyond matric certificates? Bhengu reportedly added that armed security guards could have prevented the attack on Nyawose. Last week, the Mpumalanga Department of Education suspended a male teacher at Mabusabesala Secondary School, in Weltevrede near Siyabuswa, for allegedly invigilating a Grade 11 mid-year examination while holding a gun in his hand, News24 reported.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter.- FOLLOW News24 on Twitter