A 39-year-old KwaZulu-Natal father has been slapped with a life sentence for repeatedly raping his daughter, who is now 14 years old, at their home in Rietvlei, Greytown. The child spilt the beans after a neighbour, who noticed that she behaved strangely, started to ask her questions, according to police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane. "On July 24 2018, the victim was at home with her father when he raped her. The father has been getting away with raping her for a while until a concerned neighbour noticed the strange behaviour of the child and questioned her. "The victim broke her silence and confirmed that her father had been raping her since 2017 and threatened her with violence," he said. READ: 17 children relocated as physical, sexual abuse claims rock Cape Town children's centre A rape case was opened at the Rietvlei police station and the docket was transferred to the Greytown Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences for further investigation. The father was arrested at his home on July 26, 2018. "He made several court appearances until he was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment on Wednesday (June 26, 2019) by the Greytown Regional Court. He was also declared unfit to possess a firearm and his name will entered into the national sexual offenders register," Zwane said. Life sentence handed down In a separate case, Northern Cape police welcomed the life sentence handed down to a 26-year-old man who raped a 29-year-old disabled woman in Petrusville. Andile Jantjies, 26, was sentenced in the De Aar Regional Court on June 25, 2019. According to police, Jantjies pushed the disabled woman from a tavern, in her wheelchair, on May 15, 2015 at about 23:00. Jantjies, who is known to her, took her to his house in Petrusville after he pretended that he needed to fetch something. "He forcefully lifted the victim out of her wheelchair, assaulted and raped her. The victim reported the incident to the police and Jantjies was arrested the following day. Jantjies was linked [to the crime] after forensic investigations and sentenced for the criminal offence," police spokesperson Brigadier Mohale Ramatseba said. The provincial head of the Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences (FCS) units in the Northern Cape, Brigadier Nicky Mills, applauded Detective Sergeant Melany Oliphant of the De Aar FCS unit for a job well done. "We trust that this sentencing will send out a stern warning to all perpetrators. It is with pride that we see our members working tirelessly and relentlessly to ensure that our communities are and feel safe," said Mills. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter