Judgment in the trial of the three remaining so-called Krugersdorp killers is expected to be delivered in the Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Monday. At a previous court appearance, an overwhelming desire for money was cited as the reason the three accused went on a murder spree between 2012 and 2016. READ 'Krugersdorp killers': Greed, hatred and desire for money behind murder spree - court hears Prosecutor Gerrit Roberts, SC, told the court that 11 people had been killed on the instructions of supposed 38-year-old ringleader Cecilia Steyn because of greed. WATCH: Marinda Steyn takes the stand in Krugersdorp murder trial WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State finished its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. She is accused of being the mastermind behind the group, dubbed "Electus per Deus" (Chosen by God)and, along with her co-accused, Zack Valentine, 35, and Marcel Steyn, 21, she pleaded not guilty to the murder charges. Marcel's mother Marinda Steyn, is serving 11 life terms and 115 years in jail. Marcel's older brother, Le Roux Steyn, was also a part of the group, but entered into a plea bargain with the State in May last year. He was found guilty of seven murders and sentenced to 35 years in jail for each of them. Ten years of his sentence were suspended on condition that he testified at the trial. Another member of the group, John Barnard, is serving 20 years after he was sentenced in 2016. Marinda Steyn was identified as the manager of the enterprise while Marcel, Le Roux, Valentine and Barnard were the foot soldiers. Roberts argued that there was evidence before court that Cecilia Steyn had identified all the victims and ordered their killings to get their money. In 2012, Natacha Burger and her neighbour Joyce Bonzaaier were stabbed to death in Centurion, while an axe was used to hack Pastor Reginald Bendixen to death in Honeydew. It is alleged that Valentine's wife, Mikeila Valentine, was killed because the group feared she was going to go to the police about their criminal activities. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter