A Pretoria advocate has found a cause close to his heart and
is running with it – literally. Advocate Marukgwane Moremogolo caught people’s attention
when he was spotted reading while running the 2019 Comrades Marathon up run at
the weekend. His reason: promoting literacy among South Africans. The 39-year-old says he decided to run for a cause in 2016 after
coming across a shocking report. “I had read a weekend newspaper [article] that
highlighted the dropping levels of literacy in South Africa,” he tells YOU. So, when he heard about people running the marathon for a
cause, collecting books as his cause made sense to him. “I’ve always been an
activist at heart. “I read for fun and I enjoy books, so I thought as a
response to the dropping levels of literacy in our country, I’d run for books,”
he continues. He says he capitalised on the fact that people who do funny
things while running the marathon tend to get the right attention. “I thought that if I run with a book it will be funny
enough for me to put the message across.” His approach worked. The FunDza Literacy Trust in Cape Town donated a book for
every kilometre he’d run and delivered all 88 of them before he even
participated in the marathon, he tells us. Marukgwane says the target for the foundation he started,
Literacy is Life, was to collect 400 books, but because of the overwhelming
response they increased it to 600 and subsequently reached the target within a
week of increasing it. “Mr Tinyiko Mashaba of the University of Pretoria gave us
three boxes of books – 250 books or so,” says Marukgwane, adding that he also
received books from many other individuals. Currently, the beneficiaries of the books are Makgatho
Primary School in Pretoria, Bula Tsela Primary School in the Vaal, Gauteng, and
the Moses Molelekwa Arts Foundation in Tembisa on the East Rand, Gauteng. “Our aim is to stock up their libraries...The campaign
has received so much from South Africans that we’ll even be starting a library
at the Moses Molelekwa Arts [Community Centre], and going forward we’ll look at
communities that have a need for books,” says Marukgwane. “But we also don’t want to just drop off the books. We want
to encourage a culture of reading and the FunDza Literacy [Trust] is willing to
train a few of us and our volunteers as well as teachers to be able to use that
material to teach and encourage kids to read.” Marukgwane has participated in four Comrades Marathons
since 2016. But only started incorporating his trademark – reading while
running – last year. This year, he hit the road with Moletlo wa Manong (A Feast
of the Vultures), a Tswana novel that follows a journalist investigating
corruption in the post-apartheid administration in Kimberly, written by
Sabata-mpho Mokae. He started reading from the 44km mark until the end, but
only while going uphill. Last year he read during the last three kilometres of the
marathon. Growing up in a North West village, Marukgwane says there
was no TV to watch so he developed a love for reading and listening to the
radio. When he moved to Mamelodi Township in Pretoria at the age
of 10, reading became his comfort. “I couldn’t play soccer, I couldn’t dance – I was not
fashionable. So, when my peers were outside playing, I found solace in books,”
he tells us. The advocate says he’ll be participating in more events
this year with the hope of collecting more books for those in need.