IN celebration of Youth Day, Team Ban Animal Trading (Bat) peacefully protested the use of big bang/loud fireworks outside the Liberty Midlands Mall. “Team Bat believes that the fight against fireworks is not one that should be fought before and during New Years Day or Diwali and then forgotten,” said Bat member Saihashna Rajkumar, who added that they chose a public holiday to protest and spread awareness about the harmful effects of fireworks as an abundance of people are out and about at malls during public holidays. Rajkumar said that loud sounds from fireworks don’t only harm animals but also people with epilepsy, newborn babies and the environment. “People are now using fireworks all year long for various types of celebrations but still people do not support our cause. Even though there is always social media outrage about fireworks, especially from people who have pets, yet, when its time to speak up and bring the demand for banning of loud/bang fireworks, then no one attends,” said Rajkumar in reference to those who did not show up to protest and raise awareness. With the motion to ban big bang fireworks having been sent through to Parliament courtesy of the Democratic Alliance, Rajkumar said that although they have to wait for the decision to be passed, they would continue to fight against big bang/loud fireworks until the motion is passed. “We would like to specially thank PMB Animal Rescue and Rehome (Paar) for their continuous support at our protests and to Premier Services for sponsoring our banners,” said Rajkumar. The Bat team also held a peaceful protest outside the Northlands Pet Store in Durban on June 15 after receiving a complaint about tattooed fish being sold at the store. “We immediately alerted the closest SPCA, who assured us that the Northlands Pet Store is regularly inspected and that they haven’t found anything wrong with the practice of tattooing,” said Rajkumar. Bat peacefully protested over the matter, citing their belief that fish being tattooed the way humans are is a cruel practice. “This is a cruel practice and the reason why we decided to protest it and educate the public about it is because we believe that pet stores in general are cruel because they breed and sell small animals and fish who are sentient beings who should not be sold as they are not items,” said Rajkumar.