Thursday is going to be a typically cold day over most of the country, with only Limpopo hitting the 20s. The South African Weather Service predicts low temperature nearly everywhere, but especially for the Eastern Cape. Sutherland again leads the pack, with a minimum of -5 degrees Celcius. Here is the forecast for your region. Gauteng: Fine and cool. The expected UVB sunburn index is high. Mpumalanga: Cloudy in the east, with morning fog patches, otherwise partly cloudy and cold to cool. Limpopo: Partly cloudy in the east, with morning fog patches over the escarpment, otherwise fine and cool to warm. North West: Fine and cool, but cold in the extreme south-west. Free State: Cloudy with morning fog patches and light rain in the extreme east, otherwise fine and cold, but cool in the extreme north-east. It will be partly cloudy in the east, with misty conditions at first. Northern Cape: Morning fog patches in the extreme south where it will be very cold, otherwise fine and cold, but cool in the north-west and extreme north. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong south-easterly. Western Cape: Cloudy to partly cloudy over the eastern and south-western parts in the morning, otherwise fine and cold but cool along the west coast. The wind along the coast will be fresh south-easterly north of Cape Columbine, otherwise light and variable but light north-westerly along the south-coast at first, becoming north-easterly. The expected UVB sunburn index is moderate. Eastern Cape: Cloudy with mist in places over the interior of the western half in the morning, otherwise partly cloudy and cold, becoming fine in the afternoon. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh westerly. Cloudy with mist in the north of the eastern half, otherwise cloudy and cold, with isolated showers and rain in the morning, becoming partly cloudy to fine in the afternoon. It will be very cold in places in the north. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh south-westerly, but strong in places in the early morning. KwaZulu-Natal: Cloudy and cool, but cold in the south-west, with isolated morning and afternoon showers. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong south-westerly. The expected UVB sunburn index is high. The temperatures in your area: Pretoria: 6°C to 20°C Johannesburg: 4°C  to 18°C Nelspruit: 9°C to 22°C Polokwane: 8°C to 23°C Rustenburg: 4°C to 22°C Bloemfontein: 1°C to 15°C Kimberley: 1°C to 16°C Cape Town: 9°C to 16°C George: 5°C to 17°C Port Elizabeth: 10°C to 16°C Durban: 12°C to 19°C Eastern Cape Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 13.6.2019 pic.twitter.com/MlA0x3061q Limpopo Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 13.6.2019 pic.twitter.com/L6bkFnwlNI      