This blind, autistic woman’s voice will give you all the
feels! Lavender Darcangelo (24) from Massachusetts in the US
recently took the stage at a Pride Month luncheon and asked if she could sing Part
of Your World from the 1989 Disney film The Little Mermaid to entertain the
crowd, Buzz
Feed reports. Luckily Rufus Gifford, former US ambassador to Denmark and
current candidate for the US congress, was there to capture the special moment
on his phone and posted the video on Twitter. “A young woman comes on stage today in Fitchburg.
Introduces herself as Lavender,” Rufus tweeted. “Tells us that she blind and autistic and wants to sing a
song in honour of LGBT Pride. She sings one of my favourite songs and brings us
tears.” The video has since garnered more than 42 000 likes
and 10 000 retweets on the social media platform. After finding out her video went viral, Lavender took to her
YouTube channel to explain why she chose that song, Yahoo
News reports. “I’m a person who’s both blind and autistic, and sometimes
I feel like I don’t have a home in either of the communities because I have a
foot in more than one world," Lavender said. “Diversity is pretty
infinite!” She dedicated her performance to LGBT people for Pride
month because she’s “an ally for the LGBTQ community” and because she has “two
gay dads”.  The talented young woman was adopted by Wil Darcangelo and
his husband, Jamie (48), in 2017, AOL
reports. She met Wil, also a singer, when she was 15 at an after-school
programme and asked them to adopt her in 2016. “I’ve kind of always felt that at some point people would
notice her because here in Fitchburg she’s quite a little celebrity, and her
story is so touching,” Wil said. Lavender’s tear-jerking performance was met with praise
from people on Twitter. “I hoped for ‘quite good’ and got ‘bloody amazing’.
Incredible voice, hairs on the back of the neck stuff,” one follower said. “Goosebumps for days . . . Now where are my tissues? This
was incredible. No words!” another wrote. Sources:
Yahoo
News, AOL,
Buzzfeed