As
a Muslim member of the SA National Defence Force (SANDF) prepares for a
disciplinary hearing over her refusal to remove her headscarf, the military has
reiterated that members of all religions are expected to abide by its dress
code. The SANDF said on Wednesday
"without fear of contradiction", that it recognised religious
affiliation under the guidance and leadership of the chaplain general. Its spokesperson, Brigadier
General Mafi Mgobozi, said everyone who joined the defence force was not only
taught basic training, but about policies and regulations too. The SANDF was governed by
prescripts and dress codes which regulated and dictated how the uniform should
be worn, he said. "The regulatory framework
clearly stipulates that no other clothing may be worn with the official uniform
which is representative of the SANDF as a military institution, therefore
members are expected to conform to that as stipulated." Mgobozi pointed out that the
military comprised members of different religions. "As the defence force, we
have one culture, which is a military culture. Therefore, all members are
expected to adhere to the military culture and code." The
major, identified as 47-year-old Fatima Isaacs by IOL, works as a clinical
forensic pathologist at 2 Military Hospital in Wynberg, and has been a member
of the armed forces for 10 years. 'Islamophobic, sexist' The matter came before the
military court earlier this week. Her lawyer Nazeema Mohamed told
News24 on Tuesday that she is expected to face a disciplinary hearing on August
7, when she will be allowed to have legal counsel. News24 previously
reported that Mohamed said the SANDF's action was "islamophobic, sexist
and showed a poor attitude towards women". According
to Mohamed, it (the headscarf) did not obstruct any insignia or military
rankings and for the past decade, none of the officers she reported to, took
exception to it. Should
the SANDF proceed with charges against the major, they would take the matter to
court as the action against her was discriminatory, Mohamed said. Another
major, Simo Mbete, based in Port Elizabeth, told News24 on Tuesday that he was
told to take off his taqiyah (skull cap) during a morning roll call in October
last year. He said he has never had any problems in the past, having converted
to the Muslim faith in 2016. After
refusing to take it off, his case was taken to the military court earlier this
year where he was found guilty of disobeying a lawful command. He
was fined and had to spend three months in the military barracks. He said he
would appeal. 