Mali's army reinforced security on Wednesday around two ethnic Dogon villages where 41 people were killed, according to a UN count, as survivors recounted how attackers from a rival community identified victims one by one before executing them. Monday's attack on the Gangafani and Yoro villages was the latest in a cycle of tit-for-tat violence between the Dogon and Fulani communities in the tense ethnic patchwork at the centre of Mali. Mali's government said on Wednesday the army had dispatched a contingent to reinforce security and protect property in the villages near the border with Burkina Faso. READ: 38 killed in attacks on Mali villages Liberals push end of Mali peacekeeping mission to August The military's peacekeeping mission in Mali is going to last a little longer than previously planned — but not as long as the United Nations had hoped. Canada's operations in the African nation were supposed to cease at the end of July when the ei... Just across the border in the north Burkina Faso village of Belehede, jihadist fighters killed 17 civilians in a raid overnight on Tuesday, Burkinabe Defence Minister Cheriff Sy said. An internal UN MINUSMA peacekeeping mission report seen by AFP put the death toll at 41, higher than an earlier official toll of 38 with "numerous" injured. 'Revenge' attack The UN added that more than 750 people had fled the villages where survivors and officials say Fulani gunmen arrived by motorbike before massacring people in "revenge" over suspicions that they had collaborated with the Malian army. In addition, the MINUSMA report said five Malian soldiers were killed in an ambush "by presumed extremist elements" on Tuesday in Fatal, a village in the Timbuktu commune of Gourma Rharous. The authorities did not immediately comment on the information. Abdoulaye Goro, a security guard, told AFP he had been travelling by truck to his father's funeral near the two villages, when about 40 armed men intercepted the vehicle and forced the passengers into the bush. "They did identity checks and they only looked for the people from Yoro and Gangafani, and all those who were from those two villages were set apart," Goro said. "They killed them in front of us, with rifles, and released us afterward." The attack follows a massacre of 35 people earlier this month in another Dogon village, Sobane Da. The UN says the wave of ethnic violence has killed hundreds since the start of last year. Ethnic tensions in central Mali surged after a jihadist group led by preacher Amadou Koufa emerged in 2015 and recruited mainly from among the Fulani. Clashes increased with Dogon and Bambara who formed their own self-defence militias. President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita appealed for or an end to revenge attacks after he visited the site of the Sobane Da massacre. But despite military help from France and the United Nations, Mali's government is struggling to calm violence that began in the north of the country in 2012, sparked by radical Islamist and Tuareg militias. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 