Elize Pelser takes the wind out of the sails of her doctors
all the time...In fact she gives some of them the heebie-jeebies the way
she defiantly takes on challenges in spite of her cancer-afflicted bones. But
in some ways this is precisely what keeps Thabazimbi’s gutsy “Moxie”
going. Shortly after the 47-year-old marathon- and trail-running
enthusiast completed her first Comrades in 2013 she’d learn that her breast
cancer, first diagnosed in 2007, had returned. And this time the feared disease had spread to her bones. Her previous doctor had advised her to quit her running and
mountain biking, in which she’d also started excelling in the meantime. With this
type of cancer these activities were simply too risky.  But Moxie became even more determined not to let the Big C
rob her of her lifestyle. Three Comrades marathons later, the aerobics, fitness
and cross-country trainer is now also pouring her efforts into ultra-distance
trail-running events. Recently she completed the spectacular Mac Mac Ultra, which
is 80km long. “After four Comrades I wanted a different challenge. Every
year I set myself a big goal. To me it’s celebrating that I’m alive,” Moxie
says. ‘There’s
no way you can keep running . . .’ “Moxie” means being plucky and having perseverance and
you’ll be hard put to find someone who better fits this description than Elize.
Although her nickname really comes from her maiden name, Mocke, many people
have said this woman epitomises moxie. She’s always been a sporty tomboy. “I’d play around with my
brother’s weights, for example. I was a lively one,” says Elize, who was born
in Klerksdorp and grew up in Thabazimbi. Her husband, Sol (55), used to have a gym in Thabazimbi,
which was where she met him in the Limpopo town. “I was 35 when I developed a lump in my breast in 2007,”
Moxie tells us. “It was malignant and I had a full mastectomy, did chemo
and all and went into remission. During my seven years of remission I started
running again, but I also started doing well in mountain biking “In 2013 I completed my first Comrades. But a few months
later, getting home from cycling one day, I told Sol it felt as if my breast
bone and back were breaking.  "The cancer was probably already in my skeleton, but
for a while I just continued like that. “But in December that year I was in so much pain I
struggled to lift my arms in aerobics class. I had X-rays done but the problem
wasn’t picked up immediately. A radiographer friend, back from overseas, got a
fright when she saw me, and after the recent X-rays were compared with past
ones I got an emergency appointment with an oncologist. “That’s how in 2014 I received the diagnosis: mamma
carcinoma with metastasis to the skeleton . . . "The doctor said there was no way I could keep running
and cycling – I had to look after myself carefully, because if I fell and
fractured bones I’d be in big trouble. I then decided I’d stay away from
cycling but keep exercising. “During 2014 and '15 I mostly supported friends and helped
them prepare for the Comrades. But after feeling very depressed one night in
2015 because I wasn’t able run this marathon, I just told myself: come what
may, I’m doing the next one. “I just trained harder and harder . . . and in 2016 I
completed the Comrades in 10 hours and 15 minutes. And then again in 2017 in 10
hours and 26 minutes.” Last year she tackled the arduous 90km run again. Things didn’t go as well as in previous years. She ended up
finishing in about 11 hours. The radiation treatment she was getting for her pelvis and
right thigh was impacting muscles so much that it seemed she might have to
retire. So when she ended up completing the race it turned out to be one of her
most remarkable achievements. And last month, “with grace from Above”, she also completed
the gruelling Mac Mac Ultra through mountains and valleys within about 18 hours. ‘Like a constant toothache . . . but the body is
wonderfully adaptable’ She
acknowledges the pain of the intruder in her bones is bad – it’s much more
intense than, for instance, arthritis. She can best describe it as the
equivalent of a constant toothache. The
beauty of creation she observed at the Mac Mac Ultra has given her renewed
strength. “But it was one of my toughest races ever. Because of the chemo’s
effect on my body I had ‘hand-and-foot syndrome’ – my feet were covered in
blisters and my toe nails had almost all fallen off. “Luckily,
I have quite a high pain threshold.” It’s
become such an integral part of her existence that she told friends she’s
always shocked half to death when she wakes up sometimes without any pain, she
chuckles. “And my mom says my guardian angel must be exhausted.” X-rays
show all the dark spots on her skeleton – testimony to the ruthless nature of
her cancer. It’s also nearly collapsed some of her upper vertebrae. “But
people don’t realise how adaptable the human body truly is. And if you can
combine that with good exercise your muscles kind of take over the function of
the affected vertebrae or joints by taking the weight off it. “I
think if it hadn’t been for my strong muscle mass, my skeleton would’ve
collapsed a long time ago!” A
GP in her home town has been warning her for some time she needs to stop
running, that she’s putting her body under severe pressure. He’s worried that
if she falls and breaks a bone, it’ll never recover. And then there’s the
greater risk of spinal injuries which could leave her paralysed. But
her oncologist has a measure of understanding for why Moxie feels she has to do
what she does. “He
tells me to listen to my body, to whether it says I can tackle something or
not. “Still,
he finds it incredible each time I tell him I finished a marathon or trail
run,” she says. Divine grace She’s
usually up at 4am every day to go jogging before she teaches her aerobics classes.
She also coaches long-distance running at Frikkie Meyer High School. In her
free time, she enjoys doing various activities with the members of her extended
circle of friends, as well as her son, Tjaart (18). One
of her greatest motivators is setting her son a good example with her attitude
to life. The
thought that she can inspire those who might be able-bodied and healthy but
disheartened further fuels her positive attitude. But
top of the list of things that have helped her overcome so many challenges is
her faith. “His grace and mercy and the fact that He’s given me this positive
mindset to take that first step each day . . . “Once
you’ve taken that first step, you’ll see it gets easier.”