Table Mountain National Park confirms that an attempted mugging incident took place on Sunday 9 June, near Kleinplaas Dam in Red Hill, Cape Point. Lauren Howard-Clayton, regional communications manager, explained that a man was parking along the road to the Kleinplaas Dam when two young men wearing black hoodies and jeans, approached him with knives and a firearm. The victim then dropped his belongings and ran away, alerting his friends of the suspects. By this time the suspects realised they were not alone and escaped into the direction of Ocean View. As soon as the rangers were tipped off by a WhatsApp group member at about 14:30, the rangers immediately responded. The first of three ranger teams arrived within 14 minutes of receiving the call. Soon thereafter two other teams from other sections arrived. Howard-Clayton said it was the speedy response of the rangers who were patrolling close to the area at the time that no injuries occurred and the victim was safely escorted to the incident location to retrieve his items. Additional resources will be deployed to the area to patrol and monitor that area. These are the suggested SANParks safety tips that visitors should adhere to: . never hike, run, cycle alone; . plan your route from start to end and choose the route according to the ability, fitness and experience of the group; . inform someone of exactly which route you are taking (as well as your expected time of return) and stick to this plan; . always be prepared for bad weather and take proper weatherproof clothing (wind and rainproof) even on a sunny day; torches with spare batteries and globes; strong boots or shoes with non-slip soles; food; water; a flask of tea or some other beverage; . undertake your activity with somebody (a registered guide) who knows the way and carry a guidebook, map or a detailed route description; . keep to the designated routes on well-used paths and heed signs advising of danger, and do not take short cuts or unknown routes; . leave valuables like cash and cameras behind; . be wary of suspicious people who may pose as hikers.