THE State of the Nation Address (Sona), delivered by President Cyril Ramaphosa on Thursday, June 20, was received with mixed emotions in Parliament. Newly-elected ANC Member of Parliament from Greytown Sibongile Mdlalose-Zuma welcomed the Sona and urged South Africans to give the newly-elected MPs an opportunity to show their capabilities. “The President, in his State of the Nation Address, urged all the MPs to go out to the people and work. He told the MPs to go out to the people in rural areas and work with local municipalities to deliver services to the people. “I think, as the new MPs, the residents should give us an opportunity to show the leadership credentials that we have. The President too must be given an opportunity. “Another issue that the President mentioned in the speech was the issue of job opportunities. “The youth complain about high rates of unemployment in our country. However, I believe that young people can create job opportunities themselves in the communities they live in. They can start small businesses and become young and successful entrepreneurs,” said Mdlalose-Zuma, who also reiterated to the youth of Greytown that education is a key that unlocks all the doors. Mdlalose-Zuma is a new MP from Nhlalakahle. Her parents, Ambrose Mdlalose and Margaret MaMoloi-Mdlalose, were community activists in Dumbe. “I will be conducting an oversight visit to some of the government departments in Umvoti to assess their service delivery. “As leaders we want to heed the call of the President when he said we should all go out and deliver service to the community,” she said. Other political parties expressed disappointment with the Sona, stating that there was nothing new in the address. Leader of the Democratic Alliance, Mmusi Maimane, said in a statement that the 2019 Sona was “more recycled rhetoric”. “It is disappointing that the State of the Nation Address was nothing more than an acknowledgement of the systemic problems the country faces — without announcing urgent and immediate reform measures that our nation and her people are crying out for. “We need a plan for tomorrow. “While our economy remains in ICU, the President expects his recycled rhetoric, sprinkled with one or two minor changes, to lead to fundamental reform and take us on a path of rapid economic growth that creates a job in every home. “This was not a Sona for the 10-million jobless South Africans, the majority of whom are young people,” said Maimane,