Kwaito musician Arthur Mafokate, who is standing trial on assault allegations, appeared in the Midrand Magistrate’s court on Thursday morning. Although singer Busisiwe "Cici" Twala, who laid the charges following an alleged violent dispute between the two in 2017, did not show up at court. Arthur appeared to be in good spirits as he  arrived at the Midrand Magistrate's Court with his advocate, Leana Fick. The trial was previously postponed after court recording machines were out of order. The first witness to be cross-examined by the defence was Cici's doctor, Dr Ramokgopa, from Waterfall Clinic. READ MORE: Cici to undergo a pelvic replacement operation He testified that he believes his medical records coincide with Cici's version of events from the day of the incident (June 1, 2017). He explained that he treated the Ndidinge singer from June 1 until September 11, 2017 for bruises on the left side of her pelvic area. "She was swollen in the same area, her limb was affected but the rest of her body parts were fine," he told the court. A handwritten document from the doctor, dated August 3, was also presented as evidence. The medical record states that Cici was dragged by a moving car which resulted in the diagnosis of a fractured pelvis following the alleged incident between her and Arthur. According to Dr Ramokgopa, Cici had to have pelvic replacement surgery because of her injuries. He also added that the singer was concerned if this would affect her bearing children. She was allegedly told she was healing normally and was advised to return for an abdominal scan after six weeks. Arthur's lawyers cross-examined the doctor Advocate Fick raised that Cici wrote on social media that she would not be able to have children and asked Dr Ramokgopa to confirm if this is true. The doctor then confirmed that Cici would still be able to have children, and she will be able to engage in normal intercourse. The defence then brought up pictures of Cici from the day of the alleged altercation which she posted on social media last year, but have since been deleted. They pointed out that her clothes were not torn, but only her shoe had a hole, which they believe points to the fact she could not have been dragged as alleged. Dr Ramokgopa further presented X-rays to the magistrate Vinodha Moodley, displaying how the singer's left pelvis was displaced and broken, which he believed to have been from being dragged and then falling under her own weight. The defence then asked the magistrate to postpone the case so they could have time to draft the evidence presented at Thursday's proceedings. The hearing was then postponed to August 13 to allow the defence to draft a counterargument. The trial will resume on August 27. Speaking to DRUM, Dr Ramokgopa revealed that the pelvis is the one place where you lose the most blood. "The body has about five litres of blood and you lose about 2-3 litres when you break the pelvis."   