A fine day with frost in places in expected for most of the country on Tuesday, the South African Weather Service says. Gauteng: Fine and cool. The expected UVB sunburn index is high. Mpumalanga: Fine and cool, but warm in the Lowveld. Limpopo: Fine and cool to warm. North West: Fine and cool. Free State: Fine and cool. Northern Cape: Morning frost in places over the southern interior, otherwise fine and cool to warm. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate easterly to south-easterly, becoming moderate south-westerly in the afternoon. Western Cape: Morning frost in places over the interior, otherwise fine and warm.The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh easterly to north-easterly, becoming northerly to north-westerly along the west and south-west coast from mid-morning. The expected UVB sunburn index is low. The western half of the Eastern Cape: Cloudy with mist in places in the south in the morning, otherwise fine and cool, but warm in places.The wind along the coast will be light and variable, becoming moderate to fresh north easterly from late morning. The eastern half of the Eastern Cape: Partly cloudy in places along the coast and adjacent interior, otherwise fine and cool.The wind along the coast will be light to moderate north westerly, becoming moderate to fresh north easterly from late morning. KwaZulu-Natal: Fine and cool but warm in places in the east. It will become partly cloudy over the eastern parts in the afternoon.The wind along the coast will be gentle westerly to north-westerly north of Richard's Bay at first, otherwise moderate to fresh southerly to south-westerly, becoming south-easterly south of Durban in the late afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index is low. The temperature in your city: Pretoria: 5°C to 22°C Johannesburg: 6°C to 20°C Nelspruit: 6°C to 22°C Polokwane: 4°C to 24°C Potchefstroom: 0°C to 22°C Mafikeng: 4°C to 23°C Rustenburg: 3°C to 23°C Bloemfontein: -2°C to 20°C Upington: 6°C to 26°C Kimberley: 3°C to 23°C Cape Town: 11°C to 24°C George: 8°C to 25°C Port Elizabeth: 10°C to 23°C East London: 13°C to 23°C Durban: 12°C to 24°C Pietermaritzburg: 4°C to 24°C Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days    