Harare – The Chikurubi Maximum Security Prison in
Harare is crumbling at the seams, assailed by overcrowding and a critical
shortage of medicines, food and other basics as the economically-crippled
country battles to care for its inmates. Convicts and wardens alike bemoan packed cells
where running water is erratic and shortages of food, clothes and bedding
prevail. Basic painkillers and antibiotics are impossible to come by, meaning prisoners risk dying from easily treatable conditions. "We don't have drugs for... ailments like
pneumonia and meningitis. We need a functioning X-ray machine. As of now, our
machine is down and yet this is a basic tool required for diagnosis,"
Blessing Dhoropa, a doctor at the prison hospital, said as lawmakers visited
Chikurubi last week. AFP correspondents saw prisoners wearing threadbare
uniforms in the prison's male and female sections. Inside the cells, paint flaked off some walls and for bedding, prisoners had thin blankets on bare cement floors. One complained the cells were infested with lice
and other vermin. Zimbabwe outages plunge businesses into darkness Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa promised a ''brighter tomorrow'' when he was sworn in, vowing to revive the country's economy after Robert Mugabe's 37-year rule. But this week Zimbabwe is firmly in the dark, as it endures the worst power cuts in three years. Such conditions are common in Zimbabwe's 46
prisons. They were built to collectively incarcerate 14 000 prisoners, but hold
more than 20 000 today. Chikurubi's men's section houses 2 508 inmates, instead
of the 1 360 it was designed for. "Our population is much higher than we should
hold," conceded Senior Assistant Commissioner Alvord Gapare, who oversees
jails in the Harare province. Diet 'not suitable' Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights (ZLHR) has
condemned such "deplorable" conditions, which it said "exposes
inmates to illnesses and psychological trauma". In 2013, the body said, more than 100 prisoners
died of malnutrition-related illnesses. At Chikurubi, donors provide life-saving
anti-retroviral (ARV) drugs for inmates who need it. "I am HIV positive. Drugs for HIV are
available. But other medicines, antibiotics... even the painkiller paracetamol,
are not there," 18-year-old prisoner Chiedza Chiwashira told members of
parliament's child welfare and justice committee on a fact-finding mission.  Clothes hang out to dry inside a prison cell of Chikurubi Maximum Prison in Harare, Zimbabwe. (Jekesai Njikizana/AFP) Another inmate complained there was "no
medicine for epilepsy". And according to Gapare, Chikurubi's only ambulance
"is down". At Chikurubi, prisoners grumble about the staple
diet of maize porridge without salt or sugar for breakfast, followed by the
same, served with boiled kale, cabbage or beans, for lunch and dinner. "Our diet is not suitable for people with
ailments like diabetes and hypertension," an inmate of the female section
told the official visitors. 'Not supposed to be here' Gapare conceded the prison food has little
nutritional value. "We have challenges preparing the food that's
suitable for our prisoners. We cannot follow the dietary scale that we should
follow. We serve mostly beans and vegetables," he said. In a bid to decongest the country's jails,
President Emmerson Mnangagwa granted amnesty to at least 3 000 prisoners in
March last year. But overcrowding persists as Zimbabwe's convicts,
like the general population, suffer the consequences of a moribund economy that
has been in ruins since hyperinflation peaked at 500-billion percent and wiped
out savings under former president Robert Mugabe. Zimbabwe is undergoing another bout of price rises
and shortages of fuel and daily essentials. Inflation is at more than 75%, putting
basic goods beyond the reach of many.  Zimbabwe Prison Services (ZPS) officers stand guard over the prison courtyard of Chikurubi Maximum Prison. (Jekesai Njikizani/AFP) The government is struggling to provide relief for
citizens, let alone the prison population. And the harshness of daily life continues feeding
Zimbabwe's already over-full prisons as many turn to crime to survive. "Most of the patients are not supposed to be
here," Chikurubi's deputy director for health services and a consultant
psychiatrist, Patrick Mhaka, told the lawmakers. "Some are said to have stolen a loaf of bread
and they end up here." Lawmaker Daniel Molokela asked prisoners and
officials to draw up a list of needs, which he said the government would
examine. 