The Department of Transport and Public Works (DTPW) is appealing to road users to exercise caution as the wet and more dangerous road conditions of winter settle in. Shorter, darker days, fog and rain during the Western Cape rainy season hamper visibility and can increase the risk of a road traffic accident. Safely Home data show that fatalities tend to peak in the hours around sunset when visibility is at its worst. According to Kenny Africa, DTPW chief director of Traffic Management motorists should during this time consciously increase their following distances, bearing in mind that a vehicle’s stopping distance increases in wet weather. It is crucial to have a roadworthy inspection to ensure that a vehicle is legally compliant, especially tyres and lights. Driving on the shoulder (in the emergency lane) is dangerous and illegal,” he added. Drivers are responsible for seeing and being seen on our roads. Ensure that all your lights are in working order and that your mirrors and windows are clean and free of cracks. Pedestrians are responsible for seeing and being seen on our roads. Avoid walking on busy roads when you have been drinking, wear reflective clothing, and carry a light, if possible. Don’t assume that just because you can see an oncoming motorist, that the motorist can see you. Travel more slowly when visibility is poor and the roads are wet. Wear visible clothing when you walk next to the road. If you are not seen on the road, you may not see your future. Join Safely Home on Twitter and Facebook at @WCGovSafelyHome under the hashtag #SeeAndBeSeen. The Department of Transport and Public Works (DTPW) is appealing to road users to exercise caution as the wet and more dangerous road conditions of winter settle in. Shorter, darker days, fog and rain during the Western Cape rainy season hamper visibility and can increase the risk of a road traffic accident. Safely Home data show that fatalities tend to peak in the hours around sunset when visibility is at its worst.According to the province’ traffic chief, Kenny Africa, motorists should during this time consciously increase their following distances, bearing in mind that a vehicle’s stopping distance increases in wet weather. It is crucial to have a roadworthy inspection to ensure that a vehicle is legally compliant, especially tyres and lights. Driving on the shoulder (in the emergency lane) is dangerous and illegal,” he added.Ensure that all your lights are in working order and that your mirrors and windows are clean and free of cracks. Avoid walking on busy roads when you have been drinking, wear reflective clothing, and carry a light, if possible. Don’t assume that just because you can see an oncoming motorist, that the motorist can see you. Travel more slowly when visibility is poor and the roads are wet. Wear visible clothing when you walk next to the road. If you are not seen on the road, you may not see your future.