High seas with wave heights in excess of 6 metres are expected between Cape Columbine and Cape Agulhas, spreading eastwards to Plettenberg Bay by late Wednesday morning. The South African Weather Service, which provides the forecasts, says for the most part, Wednesday will be fine and cool across South Africa. The weather in your province Gauteng is expected to be fine and cool. The expected UVB sunburn index is high. Fine and cool conditions are also expected for Mpumalanga, except for the Lowveld which will be warm. Limpopo, the North West and Free State will be fine and cool to warm, with windy conditions in the south of the latter province. Cloudy conditions with light rain in the west and south-west of the Northern Cape at first, otherwise partly cloudy and cold to cool, but fine in the east. It will be very cold in the south. The wind along the coast will be moderate southerly becoming fresh in the afternoon. The Western Cape will be cloudy and cold with morning rain and showers except in the north east where it will be partly cloudy. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh south-westerly but strong along the south coast. The expected UVB sunburn index is low. The western half of the Eastern Cape will be fine and cool becoming cloudy with isolated showers along the coast and adjacent interior in the afternoon, spreading to the northern areas in the evening. The wind along the coast will be Moderate to fresh westerly becoming strong to near gale by late morning. The eastern half of the Eastern Cape will also be fine and cool but warm in places south of the eastern escarpment becoming cloudy with isolated showers in places south of the escarpment. The wind along the coast will be light north westerly becoming fresh to strong south westerly by midday. KwaZulu-Natal will be greeted by morning mist over the north eastern interior. Otherwise fine and warm but cool in places. It will become partly cloudy from the south east by early evening with isolated showers and rain in the extreme south-east. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh northerly to north-easterly becoming south westerly from the south by late morning spreading to the northwards by evening. The expected UVB sunburn index is very high. Temperatures in your city: Kwazulu Natal Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 12.6.2019 pic.twitter.com/YCzamd124B Gauteng Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 12.6.2019 pic.twitter.com/8uvYcBuUZ2  Eastern Cape Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 12.6.2019 pic.twitter.com/FBNHBhN315  Western Cape Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 12.6.2019 pic.twitter.com/OVcptefmAU  Northern Cape Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 12.6.2019 pic.twitter.com/ffqQJTDLvq Limpopo Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 12.6.2019 pic.twitter.com/70KWQha3pT  Mpumalanga Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 12.6.2019 pic.twitter.com/795ACkjh6h  North West Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 12.6.2019 pic.twitter.com/tMvvPmYcDv  Free State Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 12.6.2019 pic.twitter.com/F31CyDUhCq   