A Roodepoort woman couldn’t be more thankful to a car guard who prevented a drunk driver from leaving when he crashed into her car. Shelley Hartman from Roodepoort in Gauteng was at The Irish Rock with her husband, Nordan, sister, Tanya, and sister’s boyfriend, Deon, taking part when local car guard, Junior, rushed to them to inform them that an incident had occurred in the pub’s parking lot on 5 June. “We followed him to our car (my mother's car, which we always use when she's babysitting) and saw a vehicle reversed into the side of it,” Shelley told YOU. “In the vehicle were two clearly inebriated individuals who appeared to be searching for something.” Junior had then explained to the mom-of-one, who was taking part in the pub’s quiz night, that the driver had reversed into her mom’s car and tried to drive away. But a heroic Junior swiftly grabbed the drunk driver’s car keys and hid it in his jacket pocket for 45-minutes. “He had quickly leaned in through the driver's window and taken the key from the ignition, ensuring they couldn't leave. “The manager of the Irish Rock joined us and called the police and began taking details from the individuals - pictures of licenses, registrations, etc. “Two policemen from Honeydew SAPS arrived and we explained the situation. “They were extremely helpful and after scolding the two individuals they asked us how we would like to proceed. “After getting the keys from Junior, the policeman hopped in the car and drove the two individuals’ home, promising they would call us with a case number for the incident,” Shelley added. Shortly after driving the two individuals home, the police returned to the pub to bring Shelley the official docket with a case number. “We went back to the quiz and to our immense surprise, the policemen arrived back shortly thereafter, having returned to the station, opening the case and driving back to the Irish Rock to give us the stamped case details so as not to further interrupt our night,” she said. Shelley revealed that she is forever grateful to Junior, who she described as friendly and helpful. “Thankfully no one was hurt, but thanks to some quick thinking from Junior and some great work by the police, we managed to stop the individuals from leaving and creating greater, potentially deadly, havoc on the streets.”