Bamako – Thirty-eight people were killed and many
others wounded in attacks on two ethnic Dogon villages in central Mali, the
government said on Tuesday, in the latest in a cycle of violence in the
volatile Sahel country. No group immediately claimed responsibility for
Monday's attacks, but Mali has seen a spate of massacres this year between
ethnic Dogon and Fulani communities. "The terrorist attacks on Monday evening
targeted the villages of Gangafani and Yoro... not far from the border with
Burkina Faso. The official provisional toll is 38 dead and numerous people
wounded," the Malian government said in a statement. "Defence and security forces have been
dispatched to the location to protect the population and their property and to
track down the assailants of these attacks," the statement added, revising
upwards an earlier toll of 14 dead. Mali president condemns central Mali village attack that saw at least 95 people killed President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita condemned the killings of at least 95 people in a village attack in central Mali. Goundjou Poudiougou, a local community official,
said around a dozen bodies had been counted in both villages. "They are terrorists because they killed and
then disembowelled some bodies and burned crops," Poudiougou said. Earlier this month, a massacre on another Dogon
village, Sobane Da, killed 35 people, stirring fears of tit-for-tat attacks in
a region with an ethnic patchwork. "This time is the same as Sobane Da: People
and animals targeted," said Adama Dionko, a spokesperson for Mali's Dogon
association. "We demand the state give us more
security." Mali's armed forces also reported, on Twitter, that
an army patrol on Tuesday was ambushed at Gossi in the north of the country and
suffered both "human and material losses". Cycle of violence President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita has appealed for
an end to the revenge attacks after he visited the site of the Sobane Da
massacre. But despite military help from France and the
United Nations, Mali's government is struggling to calm violence that began in
the north of the country in 2012, sparked by radical Islamist and Tuareg
militias. Earlier this year, in the bloodiest raid, 160
Fulani were killed in an attack on a village by suspected militiamen from a
rival ethnic group. Ethnic violence in central Mali surged after a
predominantly Fulani jihadist group led by preacher Amadou Koufa emerged in
2015. The UN peacekeeping mission in Mali, MINUSMA, said
in May it had recorded nearly 500 deaths in attacks on Fulanis in the central
regions of Mopti and Segou since January 2018. Armed Fulanis caused 63 deaths among civilians in
the Mopti region over the same period, it said. The Fulani are primarily cattle breeders and
traders, while the Bambara and Dogon ethic groups are traditionally sedentary
farmers. Unrest in the central region coincides with an
ongoing jihadist campaign that the Mali government is struggling to contain. 