A mother of a disabled 4-year-old child from Philippi, Lizeka Rabu is appealing for help after many years of staying in a shack. Rabu said she has been waiting for a house since her child, Likuye, was in born in 2015. She said her child can’t see, walk or speak and their living conditions are not helping his health. She said they use portable toilets and it is a massive struggle for her. “When the portable toilet is being changed my child’s chest gets blocked which is worrying because he already has other disabilities to deal with,” she said. Rabu said when her child was born doctors gave her a letter and suggested that she should go to the Human Settlements Department to apply for a house that will be suitable for her child’s upbringing. Since then, Rabu said she was told that she is on the waiting list. She added that her son is not coping with their living conditions and a house would help her a lot to raise the child. “My son’s disability was noticed when I was pregnant by nurses from the clinic I was going to. They then referred me to Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital,” she said. Rabu said she was told to terminate her pregnancy when the nurses found out that something may be wrong with her child but she refused. She said she decided to keep her child so she can see for herself if what she was told was true because nurses can be wrong at times. Hearing about the termination of her pregnancy was disturbing for her because she does not believe in that. Mayco member for human settlements Malusi Booi confirmed that Rabu is registered on the City housing database since 2012. He said Philippi is not a source area for any of their current breaking new ground developments and that Rabu’s application date is fairly recent and thus it cannot be considered under those residing outside target project areas. Booi said special needs applicants considered for the breaking new ground development must reside within the source area. “The City prioritises the disabled and elderly and will engage the family, assess the situation and perhaps see where they can be assisted in one of the existing developments as a matter of urgency,” he said.