Parents from across the Western Cape can now find out if their child’s admission applications for the 2020 school year have, or have not, been successful. According to the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) some schools have already informed parents of the outcome, however, the majority of schools participating in the online admission pilot, have had until this week to upload confirmations or notifications of non-acceptance. The online system received over 277 000 applications from 147 000 different users in a month, between 15 February to 15 March. The second phase of the admission process is currently underway. Parents can check the status of their applications online and confirm their final choice of school. In other words, if a child has been accepted at one or more schools, the parent must confirm acceptance at one of the schools on the list where the application was successful. Failure to confirm by the deadline will result in the system allocating the first school that has marked the application as successful for 2020 to the learner. Parents and guardians have until 12 July to submit their confirmations. The department believes this gives parents ample time to decide which school they would like their child to attend. “It is not fair to the parents and children who have received unsuccessful notifications of admission, for spaces to be kept on hold for months on end while parents make up their minds on which schools they should send their children to. Confirmations from parents are needed so that spaces are opened for unsuccessful candidates,” says Bronagh Hammond, director of communications at the WCED. “Parents who receive unsuccessful notifications from all schools they applied to must remain calm. If you are unsuccessful during the first round, you may appeal to the student governing body (SGB). “It is also important that they request to be placed on the waiting list of the schools where their applications have been unsuccessful at, so that their child may be considered, if and when, openings occur after the second phase.” “As parents confirm places, up to 12 July, the WCED and schools will be able to identify where spaces are opening. Schools will apply their admission policies in terms of their waiting lists and they could accept and change the status of learners who have been on waiting lists or unsuccessful to successful. The school will notify parents of any such change”. Hammond says the information will then be captured on the system for the parents to confirm acceptance. “The process has not yet been finalised,” she says. Parents can confirm their final choices in the following ways: . visiting https://admissions.westerncape.gov.za and go to Track Applications to confirm; .
 parents who cannot access the internet can hand in written confirmation of acceptance and/or decline directly at the schools. The schools will be able to upload the information on the system as proof; . parents can also send an e-mail to: wced.admissions@westerncape.gov.za; . they can also send a WhatsApp message to 067 973 3099 with their name and surname, cellphone number, learner’s name and surname, CEMIS number and school number (where applicable) and their school of choice according to their successful applications. . they can also call the following numbers: 021 467 2631; 021 467 2760; 021 467 2171. The WCED has warned that the agents will not deal with complaints or concerns over unsuccessful applications. “We need to first ensure that as many confirmations are dealt with as soon as possible, which will then allow for unsuccessful parents to get notifications from schools where spaces have opened. If these lines are blocked up with complaints, it will only delay the process further,” says Hammond. She calls on all the parents to co-operate. Parents having technical problems with the site are encouraged to send an email to Cemishelp.MisTeam@westerncape.gov.za (please state it is a technical query or send an SMS to 064 075 2099) “We hope that everyone involved in this process works together to make it less stressful for parents and for schools,” Hammond concluded. They can visit the WCED Admissions website: https://wcedonline.westerncape.gov.za/admissions-201920. Parents from across the Western Cape can now find out if their child’s admission applications for the 2020 school year have, or have not, been successful. According to the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) some schools have already informed parents of the outcome, however, the majority of schools participating in the online admission pilot, have had until this week to upload confirmations or notifications of non-acceptance. The online system received over 277 000 applications from 147 000 different users in a month, between 15 February to 15 March. Failure to confirm by the deadline will result in the system allocating the first school that has marked the application as successful for 2020 to the learner. Parents and guardians have until 12 July to submit their confirmations. The department believes this gives parents ample time to decide which school they would like their child to attend. “It is not fair to the parents and children who have received unsuccessful notifications of admission, for spaces to be kept on hold for months on end while parents make up their minds on which schools they should send their children to. Confirmations from parents are needed so that spaces are opened for unsuccessful candidates,” says Bronagh Hammond, director of communications at the WCED. “Parents who receive unsuccessful notifications from all schools they applied to must remain calm. If you are unsuccessful during the first round, you may appeal to the student governing body (SGB). It is also important that they request to be placed on the waiting list of the schools where their applications have been unsuccessful at, so that their child may be considered, if and when, openings occur after the second phase.” “As parents confirm places, up to 12 July, the WCED and schools will be able to identify where spaces are opening. Schools will apply their admission policies in terms of their waiting lists.” Parents can confirm their final choices in the following ways: . visiting https://admissions.westerncape.gov.za and go to Track Applications to confirm; .
 parents who cannot access the internet can hand in written confirmation of acceptance and/or decline directly at the schools. The schools will be able to upload the information on the system as proof; . parents can also send an e-mail to: wced.admissions@westerncape.gov.za; . they can also send a WhatsApp message to 067 973 3099 with their name and surname, cellphone number, learner’s name and surname, CEMIS number and school number (where applicable) and their school of choice according to their successful applications. . they can also call the following numbers: 021 467 2631; 021 467 2760; 021 467 2171. The WCED has warned that the agents will not deal with complaints or concerns over unsuccessful applications. Parents from across the Western Cape can now find out if their child’s admission applications for the 2020 school year have, or have not, been successful. According to the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) some schools have already informed parents of the outcome, however, the majority of schools participating in the online admission pilot, have had until this week to upload confirmations or notifications of non-acceptance. The online system received over 277 000 applications from 147 000 different users in a month, between 15 February to 15 March. The second phase of the admission process is currently underway. Parents can check the status of their applications online and confirm their final choice of school. In other words, if a child has been accepted at one or more schools, the parent must confirm acceptance at one of the schools on the list where the application was successful. Failure to confirm by the deadline will result in the system allocating the first school that has marked the application as successful for 2020 to the learner. Parents and guardians have until 12 July to submit their confirmations. The department believes this gives parents ample time to decide which school they would like their child to attend. “It is not fair to the parents and children who have received unsuccessful notifications of admission, for spaces to be kept on hold for months on end while parents make up their minds on which schools they should send their children to. Confirmations from parents are needed so that spaces are opened for unsuccessful candidates,” says Bronagh Hammond, director of communications at the WCED. “Parents who receive unsuccessful notifications from all schools they applied to must remain calm. If you are unsuccessful during the first round, you may appeal to the student governing body (SGB). “It is also important that they request to be placed on the waiting list of the schools where their applications have been unsuccessful at, so that their child may be considered, if and when, openings occur after the second phase.” “As parents confirm places, up to 12 July, the WCED and schools will be able to identify where spaces are opening. Schools will apply their admission policies in terms of their waiting lists and they could accept and change the status of learners who have been on waiting lists or unsuccessful to successful. The school will notify parents of any such change”. Hammond says the information will then be captured on the system for the parents to confirm acceptance. “The process has not yet been finalised,” she says. Parents can confirm their final choices in the following ways: . visiting https://admissions.westerncape.gov.za and go to Track Applications to confirm; .
 parents who cannot access the internet can hand in written confirmation of acceptance and/or decline directly at the schools. The schools will be able to upload the information on the system as proof; . parents can also send an e-mail to: wced.admissions@westerncape.gov.za; . they can also send a WhatsApp message to 067 973 3099 with their name and surname, cellphone number, learner’s name and surname, CEMIS number and school number (where applicable) and their school of choice according to their successful applications. . they can also call the following numbers: 021 467 2631; 021 467 2760; 021 467 2171. The WCED has warned that the agents will not deal with complaints or concerns over unsuccessful applications. “We need to first ensure that as many confirmations are dealt with as soon as possible, which will then allow for unsuccessful parents to get notifications from schools where spaces have opened. If these lines are blocked up with complaints, it will only delay the process further,” says Hammond. She calls on all the parents to co-operate. Parents having technical problems with the site are encouraged to send an email to Cemishelp.MisTeam@westerncape.gov.za (please state it is a technical query or send an SMS to 064 075 2099) “We hope that everyone involved in this process works together to make it less stressful for parents and for schools,” Hammond concluded. They can visit the WCED Admissions website: https://wcedonline.westerncape.gov.za/admissions-201920. Parents from across the Western Cape can now find out if their child’s admission applications for the 2020 school year have, or have not, been successful. According to the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) some schools have already informed parents of the outcome, however, the majority of schools participating in the online admission pilot, have had until this week to upload confirmations or notifications of non-acceptance. The online system received over 277 000 applications from 147 000 different users in a month, between 15 February to 15 March. The second phase of the admission process is currently underway. Parents can check the status of their applications online and confirm their final choice of school. In other words, if a child has been accepted at one or more schools, the parent must confirm acceptance at one of the schools on the list where the application was successful. Failure to confirm by the deadline will result in the system allocating the first school that has marked the application as successful for 2020 to the learner. Parents and guardians have until 12 July to submit their confirmations. The department believes this gives parents ample time to decide which school they would like their child to attend. “It is not fair to the parents and children who have received unsuccessful notifications of admission, for spaces to be kept on hold for months on end while parents make up their minds on which schools they should send their children to. Confirmations from parents are needed so that spaces are opened for unsuccessful candidates,” says Bronagh Hammond, director of communications at the WCED. “Parents who receive unsuccessful notifications from all schools they applied to must remain calm. If you are unsuccessful during the first round, you may appeal to the student governing body (SGB). “It is also important that they request to be placed on the waiting list of the schools where their applications have been unsuccessful at, so that their child may be considered, if and when, openings occur after the second phase.” “As parents confirm places, up to 12 July, the WCED and schools will be able to identify where spaces are opening. Schools will apply their admission policies in terms of their waiting lists and they could accept and change the status of learners who have been on waiting lists or unsuccessful to successful. The school will notify parents of any such change”. Hammond says the information will then be captured on the system for the parents to confirm acceptance. “The process has not yet been finalised,” she says. Parents can confirm their final choices in the following ways: . visiting https://admissions.westerncape.gov.za and go to Track Applications to confirm; .
 parents who cannot access the internet can hand in written confirmation of acceptance and/or decline directly at the schools. The schools will be able to upload the information on the system as proof; . parents can also send an e-mail to: wced.admissions@westerncape.gov.za; . they can also send a WhatsApp message to 067 973 3099 with their name and surname, cellphone number, learner’s name and surname, CEMIS number and school number (where applicable) and their school of choice according to their successful applications. . they can also call the following numbers: 021 467 2631; 021 467 2760; 021 467 2171. The WCED has warned that the agents will not deal with complaints or concerns over unsuccessful applications. “We need to first ensure that as many confirmations are dealt with as soon as possible, which will then allow for unsuccessful parents to get notifications from schools where spaces have opened. If these lines are blocked up with complaints, it will only delay the process further,” says Hammond. She calls on all the parents to co-operate. Parents having technical problems with the site are encouraged to send an email to Cemishelp.MisTeam@westerncape.gov.za (please state it is a technical query or send an SMS to 064 075 2099) “We hope that everyone involved in this process works together to make it less stressful for parents and for schools,” Hammond concluded. They can visit the WCED Admissions website: https://wcedonline.westerncape.gov.za/admissions-201920.