Acting eThekwini Municipality Mayor
Fawzia Peer’s claims of her being poisoned causing a media frenzy is totally
rejected. It is a cheap stunt to gain Peer press publicity. There is an attempt
to remind us that “Peer is in charge and not Gumede” in light of Peer being
totally side-lined from any media coverage. This week was only about Gumede
gatherings and Nzuza knocking on the state witness door. There was nothing
about Peer. The claims of poisoning are a dismal attempt to save face using the
power of the media to attract sympathy from inside and outside the ANC. The acting mayor wants to come across as the innocent ice-white fragile little lady
supposedly being victimised and threatened. The City’s acting head of communications
has also denied the claims that Peer was poisoned. It is improper to go by
Facebook and Twitter postings which allege that a Peer was poisoned. There is
nothing concrete – as yet – nor any evidence at all. Actually, the Acting
Mayor’s Office has gone on record stated that “No, that’s not what happened.
The deputy mayor fell sick and then she had to go home.” How could Peer possibly be “poisoned”
when she only drinks the bottled water that her bodyguards – always in
attendance – hold securely and safely for her which she takes from them, sips
on now and then and returns to them? It is an absolute joke to read that there
are claims that she was poisoned. Even when it comes to her food Peer eats
privately due to her strong cultural ties and traditional as well as religious
dictates. Fawzia has not been accepted by the ANC
or the city as the acting mayor. An exco meeting that she chaired this
week saw senior ANC leaders storm out the council chambers prior to holding
views polar opposite to Peer’s. Most embarrassing this week was Peer being
snubbed by ANC councillors and her caucus who showed their unwavering support
to Gumede. Peer fools no one. She has apparently
always feared for her safety. Under all of the fancy and elite mannerisms,
appearance and dress which liken her to the ladies of British royalty her
desperate attempts to snatch on to power that is quickly slipping from her
hands are most visible. Rashida Khan Durban