It will be fine and cool for most parts of South Africa on Monday, with the Western Cape and Eastern Cape expected to experience fog patches in the morning. Forecast as provided by the SA Weather Service. The weather in your region It will be fine and cool in Gauteng. The expected UVB sunburn index will be high.  Mpumalanga will be fine and cool, but warm and partly cloudy in the Lowveld. It will be fine and cool to warm in Limpopo, becoming partly cloudy over the Lowveld. The North West is expected to be fine and cool as is the Free State. It will be fine and cool in the Northern Cape, but warm in the north. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate southerly to south-easterly. Morning fog is expected in places along the south and south-west coast of the Western Cape and also over the eastern Central Karoo, otherwise partly cloudy and cool to warm. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate north-westerly to westerly but southerly to south-easterly north of Table Bay. The expected UVB sunburn index for the region is moderate. In the western half of the Eastern Cape it will be cloudy with fog in places in the south in the morning, otherwise partly cloudy and cool, but warm in places. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate north-westerly in places at first, otherwise north-easterly. In the province's eastern half, expect it to be cloudy with fog in places south of the escarpment in the morning, otherwise partly cloudy and cool. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate north-westerly, becoming north-easterly in the afternoon. KwaZulu-Natal will be partly cloudy in the east at first, otherwise fine and cool, but cold over the south-western high-ground. The wind along the coast will be moderate south-westerly, becoming gentle easterly to north-easterly from the south spreading northwards. The expected UVB sunburn index is high Your minimum and maximum temperatures: Pretoria: 6°C - 22°C Johannesburg: 8°C - 21°C Nelspruit: 8°C - 21°C Polokwane: 06°C - 21°C Mahikeng: 7°C - 24°C Bloemfontein: 3°C - 21°C Upington: 8°C - 26°C Kimberley: 5°C - 23°C Cape Town: 13°C - 21°C Port Elizabeth: 10°C - 24°C East London: 11°C - 23°C Durban: 14°C - 24°C Pietermaritzburg: 7°C - 23°C