ANC struggle stalwart, anti-apartheid activist and former Robben Island prisoner Andrew Mlangeni turned 94 on Thursday. Several people, including politicians and prominent South Africans, have wished the former Rivonia trialist a happy birthday. "Warmest wishes to Isithwalandwe/Seaparankoe Tata Andrew Mlangeni on the occasion of his 94th birthday. Tata Mlangeni continues to play an active and immeasurable leadership role in ensuring that our movement adheres to the principles and values on which it was founded," President Cyril Ramaphosa said.  In a statement from Parliament, spokesperson Moloto Mothapo, said Presiding Officers of Parliament, led by Natioinal Assembly Speaker, Thandi Modise, NCOP chair Amos Masondo expressed their well-wishes to the veteran, who is one of the two remaining surviving Rivonia Trialists. Mlangeni served as an MP in the National Assembly until his retirement in 2014. "The nation is honoured to have in its midst one of the few remaining fathers of our liberation, who continue to serve as the quintessence of wisdom, integrity and selflessness. Dr Mlangeni's lifelong, uncompromising commitment to social justice, democracy, equality, human rights and development of our nation is an inspiring historical legacy that will continue to inspire future generations in South Africa and the world," said Mothapo.  The Nelson Mandela Foundation also wished Mlangeni well on his special day. In a statement, the foundation quoted Mlangeni saying: "My time is up, the future is theirs" when the stalwart urged young people to vote earlier this year. "Mlangeni was a prominent African National Congress activist, who was one of the few that were sent to China for military training but, was convicted of high treason in the notorious Rivonia Trial in 1964 along with Nelson Mandela. Ntate Andrew spent 26 years and four months in jail from 1963 to 1989," said the foundation. "Happy birthday, Ntate Mlangeni! Uhule Uhule Uhule!" concluded the Nelson Mandela Foundation.  The Ahmed Kathrada Foundation also sent him well wishes. "As we celebrate the birthday of Tata Andrew Mlangeni, this year also marks the 30th anniversary of the release of some of the Rivonia Trialists. Mlangeni is a struggle stalwart whose prison number on Robben island was 467/64." 