The Western Cape's Anti-Gang Unit (AGU) has not
been allocated a budget, a community activist has claimed. Six of the unit's members were shot earlier this
month in a botched tracing operation. In an email to national police commissioner
Lieutenant General Khehla Sitole this week, in which Minister of Police Bheki
Cele was CCed, Colin Arendse claimed he learnt that the AGU had been operating
without a budget since its inception in November last year. He said this was because Sitole and those operating
under his command had not allocated a personnel and salary sub system (Persap)
number to the unit. According to a technical indicators SA Police
Service (SAPS) document, Persap is an in-house human resources/financial system
that addresses the police's unique requirements to ensure "appropriate
managerial and reporting capability on human resource and financial processes
and procedures". Arendse said: "I find this bizarre in the
extreme as the required organisational design and work study has already been
presented to you after the AGU commander, General André Lincoln, received no
support or assistance from head office staff in this regard, acting under your
command." WATCH: Samora Machel residents call for more police power after recent killings Members of the Neighbourhood Watch of the Cape Town surburb of Samora Machel have called on Police Minister Bheki Cele to deploy more boots on the ground after a spate of killings in the area. "General Lincoln was forced to prepare and
present this report to you himself – without your or any other
assistance." 'Illegal counter-strategy' Arendse further alleged that top cops in the
province launched "an illegal counter-strategy" to the AGU, labelled
Operation MORT (Major Offences Reaction Team) which he claimed removed 287
police members and 125 vehicles from stations and specialised units across the
Western Cape. He alleged that MORT had been operating with a
budget of R1.1m per month for the last four months, even though Sitole did not
sign off on an organisational design and work study. Arendse said MORT was duplicating the work the AGU
and other specialised units and stations already did. "To put it bluntly, General, the AGU has not
received a single cent via an operating budget because you – and those acting
under your command – appear to have failed miserably to execute your oath of
office and the will of government and our people." He said Sitole should remedy the situation
immediately. If this was not done by Tuesday afternoon, he
intended laying charges against Sitole and other police officials "who
have failed to uphold the oath of office you publicly undertook when receiving
the Sword of Command". Cele to engage Sithole on budget claims News24 approached Cele's spokesperson, Reneilwe
Serero, on Tuesday afternoon for comment. On Wednesday, Serero confirmed the
letter had reached the minister's office. The information was, however, addressed to the
national police commissioner and a response "will be provided through the
relevant office". "I can also confirm that the Minister of
Police will engage the national commissioner on the matter," Serero said. News24 also approached national SAPS spokesperson,
Colonel Athlenda Mathe, for comment via phone calls and messages on Tuesday
afternoon. The comment will be added once received. The South African Government News
Agency reported on Wednesday that Cele would be elevating the unit
to the national office to extend its mandate in dealing with community crimes.
It was not immediately clear if this move was a response to Arendse's claims. 'Mandate extended' "In responding directly to the scourge of
gangsterism, the Anti-Gang Unit will be elevated to a national division, and
other specialised units will be introduced," Cele said in the statement. "This unit will extend its mandate and deal
with other crimes of fear that are terrorising our communities." This would also include murder, rape, car
hijackings, house robberies, house burglaries and cash-in-transit heists. A detective academy will also be introduced. This is not the first sign of problems in the
newly-launched unit to emerge this past week. In a scathing letter earlier this month, Lincoln
wrote to Western Cape police commissioner Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula
to request the removal of a brigadier and two colonels who had been placed in
his unit by Jula himself. READ: Anti-Gang Unit
head wants 3 top cops removed after botched op leaves 6 officers injured Lincoln is understood to have written the letter a
day after his officers were wounded in an early morning shootout in Samora
Machel, about 20km outside Cape Town. Western Cape police spokesperson Novela Potelwa
said last week that the acting provincial commissioner had appointed Major
General Oswald Reddy to investigate "all issues pertaining to the
attack". "The investigation will also include recent
allegations about some SAPS members that surfaced in media reports. It is
requested that the investigation be allowed space to reach finality," she
said.   - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 