Five men allegedly linked to the killing of at least eight people in KwaThema, Springs and Tsakane, eastern Johannesburg, have been arrested, Gauteng police said on Thursday. Police also recovered four 9mm pistols with 61 rounds of ammunition from the suspects who are aged between 25 and 35. Provincial police spokesperson Colonel Lungelo Dlamini said although the motive for the shooting and killings by a group of armed men was still being investigated, they were looking at the possibility that some of the killings might be related to rival gangs involved in collecting trash at the Rietfontein landfill and dumpsite as well as a turf war over drugs in KwaThema. Dlamini said detectives have been working tirelessly to solve these murders, which happened two months ago. "Today, detectives and members of the Ekurhuleni Metro Police followed information that led them to these suspects who were at the Springs dumpsite. The suspects were confronted after they had already boarded a taxi to KwaThema. Members of the Ekurhuleni Metro Police searched the suspects and seized four unlicensed firearms." The suspects would be charged with the possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition, Dlamini said. Two bodies were found Two bodies were found with gunshot wounds at the dumpsite in Springs in April and two in Tsakane, where two people were also wounded during an attack by eight gunman who were shooting randomly at people. "Eight other people were also attacked while they were sitting in a shack in KwaThema - three were killed and five were taken to hospital. It is suspected that the motive for the attack was drug-related," said Dlamini. Police are currently investigating multiple cases of murder, attempted murder and malicious damage to property. Dlamini said a reward would be offered to anyone with information that led to the arrest of the killers and others involved in serious and violent crimes. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter