Having an
ill pet can be traumatic – especially for a young child. On Sunday 26 May four-year-old Lemieke le Roux sadly told her mom, Amanda (37), that her puppy had taken ill. The pup in question is really a stuffed toy, Marshall from the animated series Paw Patrol. “At first she said Marshall had a tummy ache, but later she explained that his leg was sore. Then she changed her mind again and told me it’s a tummy ache,” Amanda tells YOU. When Lemieke persisted for the next few days that Marshall was unwell and didn’t want to play with her any more, Amanda and her husband, Louis (46), decided to make a plan. Amanda posted on the Amanzimtoti Trader Facebook group, asking for suggestions to deal with the situation. To her surprise Dr Tammy Talbot, a veterinarian at Seadoone Veterinary Clinic outside Amanzimtoti, KwaZulu-Natal, offered her services. The next day Marshall was taken to the clinic for Tammy to “examine” the pup. She listened to his heartbeat and breathing, and even checked his eyes before prescribing the correct “treatment”. Tammy gave Marshall two injections – one for pain and another with antibiotics. “When Tammy suggested injections I thought it would be a bit of a fuss. But Lemieke listened to the vet and solemnly held Marshall while the ‘injections’ were given,” Amanda says. In March last year Lemieke spent two weeks in hospital with an E. coli bacterial infection, Amanda explains. “Unfortunately my kids are familiar with hospitals. Lemieke has told me a few times that when you’re sick, you need injections and an IV to get well,” she says. Amanda posted Marshall’s story on her Facebook profile, where it’s met with thousands of positive responses. “I think Lemieke is happy someone took her seriously,” she says.  Leaving the vet’s rooms, Lemieke told her mom she was grateful to have visited the vet. “She told me Marshall didn’t feel that much better yet, but that ‘auntie doctor’ said he’d be better soon.” Marshall, who was a gift from Lemieke’s uncle for Easter, is her daughter’s best friend, Amanda says.