Former deputy finance minister Sifiso Buthelezi is among a number of ANC members who have replaced former MPs and former ministers who recently resigned after last month's general elections. A statement issued by the Office of ANC Chief Whip, Pemmy Majodina, said Buthelezi would replace former state security minister and ANC national executive committee (NEC) member, Dipuo Letsatsi-Duba. Former social development minister and minister for women in the presidency, Susan Shabangu, will be replaced by Fikile Masiko, while Tshoganetso Tongwane, will take over from former human settlements minister Nomaindia Mfeketo. Former Northern Cape premier Sylvia Lucas will be replaced by Nombulelo Lillian Hermans. Lucas withdrew from the list of MPs due to her deployment as National Council of Provinces deputy chairperson. Judy Hermans will replace Makhosini Nkosi, who did not take up his seat as an MP. Emily Manketsi Thlape will replace President Cyril Ramaphosa who ceased to be an MP upon his election as president. The office confirmed the resignations of former MPs and said as it was "normal". "The Office of the Chief Whip has extended the ANC's gratitude to these former MPs for the distinguished and diligent service they rendered to the people of South Africa and the ANC over the years in both the executive and Parliament. "We also derive satisfaction from the knowledge that we will continue to tap into their wealth of political and leadership experience as they have all expressed their commitment to continue serving the ANC and the people of South Africa in other capacities," read the statement. The swearing-in ceremony will take place on Monday at 15:00, in Parliament. Earlier on Thursday, Shabangu joined the list of former Cabinet members who opted to resign after failing to secure positions in the new executive. Parliament spokesperson Moloto Mothapo confirmed Shabangu's resignation in a statement. News24 earlier reported that these MPs were part of a group of 14 former ministers who did not make it into Ramaphosa's new Cabinet announced last week. 