In a piece earlier this year, I expressed the
dire situation of leadership on Stellenbosch University campus, with leaders
who have been dealing with mental health issues, or are ill equipped or
unskilled in their positions. The result of this was poor leadership and a lack
of productivity in many areas. With the
SRC elections nearing for Stellenbosch University for the 2019/2020 period, it
is an important time for students to be politically sophisticated by
considering who are the best candidates to lead and represent them. This is a
crucial moment since there are many happenings on campus dealing with student
access and transformation, that are under attack. Food, accommodation and funding A major
flaw witnessed by students this year was the crisis involving student access
and the fact that students on NSFAS and similar bursaries either received their
allowances late, or did not receive anything at all. This consequently led to
many students' human dignity being infringed where they had to sleep in faculty
computer rooms. In response
to this, many non-positional leaders and activists formed groups such as the
People's Movement since they realised that #Move4Food and SRC attempts had
failed for the first half of the year. It got to a point where students were
put on a confidential database and were contacted by members of People's
Movement to assist them in any way possible. In defence
of the outgoing SRC, they were also restricted in terms of budget and spending
approvals, since the university's Student Affairs department has limited the
SRC's powers and capabilities to a point where the SRC battles to even assist students.
However, it is important to note that SRC members should be vigilant of
decisions taken by members of management to change policies that affect the SRC
and students. Therefore,
the SRC candidates must be prepared to be outspoken, critical and
student-focused, who are prepared to engage with management as colleagues, and
not as subordinates. There needs to be respect for the Student Representative
Council structure, as it is a legally recognised structure in the Higher
Education Act, and it needs to be restored to its effective entity. Transformation vs regressiveness 2019 has
been an interestingly frustrating year in terms of working towards achieving
true transformation on campus. Unfortunately, discussions and topics from years
ago have resurfaced, with people questioning social issues that have actually
been proven through task teams and academic, research articles. The
existence of rape culture, white privilege and male privilege are realities,
especially on Stellenbosch University campuses. However, people wanted to
question these again this year, bringing up painful, traumatic experiences of
marginalised groups, especially people of colour, and womxn. Unfortunately,
the SRC did not have a transformation officer for long, and the only
transformative entities left on campus were certain student leaders, the
Transformation Office and the Institutional Transformation Committee. Only
certain pro-transformation student leaders were vocal about the regressive
absurdities, whilst the tongues of the office and committee were tied. The SRC,
strangely enough, remained extremely quiet about this. Some members did attend
meetings about these issues, but they never publicly expressed their view.
However, they were strategic by condemning the Virgin Active masturbator since
he was an 'easy' matter to denounce, whereas regressive forces on campus posed
a difficult curveball for them. Thus, I
encourage SRC candidates to be unapologetically vocal about social justice and
human rights. These are important issues which need to be tackled on our campus
so that the process of transformation can continue. It is imperative that we
continue following the roadmap which our Constitution has laid out for our
society. Mental health There is
now a big stigma that being involved in the SRC will cause the deterioration of
students' mental health. Whilst this is debatable, many outgoing and ex-going
members can attest that it is a difficult space to be in, and one should be
prepared for conflict, stress, and a large workload. Furthermore,
SRC candidates should consider themselves and their well-being during their
tenure, if elected. If already suffering from a mental illness, it is
encouraged to visit a psychologist/therapist regularly, and those who are not
suffering but need to speak to someone, it is also important. It is clear
that there are many expectations for the next SRC. There will be individuals
and groups who will expect perfection, whilst many, including myself, would
like to expect SRC members to see the humanity in fellow students, and want to
be dutiful, impactful leaders, that will uphold the Student Constitution and
ultimately, the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa.  