THERE are just a few days to go before the Maritzburg Spar Women’s 10km/five kilometre challenge (August 18) and organisers are gearing up for another capacity-packed and fun-filled day at The Oval cricket ground in Alexandra Park, where two rand from every entry will go towards Choc (Childhood Cancer Foundation) House based in Pietermaritzburg. While online entries for the race closed on August 12 at midnight, there is still time to get entries in at race registration on August 16 from 10 am to 5 pm and August 17 from 10 am to 3 pm at The Oval cricket ground in Alexandra Park. Participants and members of the public are reminded about road closures in order to avoid traffic congestion on the day. Organisers advise that participants leave home early and plan where they want to park to avoid being late for the start, as the event attracts 4 500 participants who will converge for both races at the start in Princess Margaret Drive, opposite Maritzburg College, at 8 am. ROAD CLOSURES AND TIMES: Sunday, August 18 Balmoral closed from 3 am – 11 am Princess Margaret closed from 3 am – 11 am Park Drive between Princess Margaret and Princess Elizabeth closed from 3 am – 11 am Princess Elizabeth closed from 3 am – 11 am Park Drive from College Rd to Princess Elizabeth closed from 7 am – 11 am Alexandra Road from Cross Rd to Alan Paton Ave closed (inbound only) from 7 am – 10 am Alan Paton Ave from Alexandra Rd to Burger St closed (inbound only) from 7 am – 8.30 am Alexandra Road closed in both directions from 7.30 am until approximately 8.45 am (to accommodate the large field). Once again, this year the new water supply procedures will be implemented to help minimise any waste of water. The race goodie bags with race T-shirts given out at race registration, and the breakfast packs given out after the race, are in recyclable Spar paper bags. Before the race, participants should collect their 750 ml aQuelle Still water, made from fully recyclable PET plastic. Participants must carry the bottle during the event and dispose of the bottle at either the finish of the five-kilometre event or at the Time Freight half-way table of the 10 km event. The 10 km participants will be able to collect another bottle of aQuelle water for the second half of the route. At the end of the race, each entrant will receive a bottle of water on completion and are encouraged to dispose of these in the recycling bins provided. Manual registration at race registration on August 16 and August 17 is subject to a maximum of 4 500 entries. For more information, contact the organisers atmaritzburg@sparwomensrace.co.za or visit the official race on www.sparwomensrace.co.za or like the Facebook page. — Supplied.