It’s been more than four months since the
eight-year-old went missing. Amahle Thabethe’s mom, Nokulunga Nkosi, is
still reeling from the pain of not knowing her daughter’s whereabouts. Amahle was playing with her friends and cousins
near her home in Tsakane, East Rand, on Saturday 6 April when an unknown man reportedly
came out of nowhere and lured her away. Days have come and gone, and the family still
have many unanswered questions. Nokulunga’s agony is palpable as she talks
about how she’ll never give up looking for her. “The pain is indescribable,” the distraught mother
tells YOU. Since Amahle’s disappearance, Nokulunga, who’s
an assistant welder by trade, has been in and out of hospital and she’s been
diagnosed with depression. Amahle’s siblings often ask their mom every day
when their sister is coming back. Nokulunga says even though she isn’t coping,
she goes to work to keep her mind from running wild. “It’s really hard but I have to go because [instead
of] sitting at home at least I get to be busy.” The heartbroken mom says the prayer and support
she’s getting from her family and friends help to keep her going. “I really miss her smile and her laugh,” she
says of Amahle. “She never used to talk a lot, but really enjoyed laughing.” She’s grateful to everyone who’s been assisting
her, but she looks at Amahle’s pictures often and it breaks her heart,
Nokulunga says. “I’m still getting calls from people I don’t
even know. It shows that the other people there still haven’t lost hope.” But she hasn’t received an update from the
police in a long time, she says. A man was taken in for questioning months ago
but was released because he couldn’t be linked to the case. “They arrested an innocent man who didn’t know
anything. I just feel the police aren’t doing enough. “We’ve done everything we can to find her. It’s
in God’s hands and we trust that He’s going to fight for us.”  This mother still doesn’t know why anyone would
want to hurt her child. “I truly don’t know because I’ve never even
received calls from someone asking for a ransom.” But she still hasn’t lost hope that her child
will be in her arms again one day. “If she can read this article, I want her to
know that mommy is looking for her and that I haven’t thrown in the towel and
that I love her.”