The State contends that Phoenix triple murder accused Colin Pillay killed his long-time lover's eldest daughter in the most violent way because she "didn't approve" of him. In his second day in the witness box, 47-year-old Pillay was again on the receiving end of senior prosecutor Cheryl Naidu's hard-hitting questions. On Tuesday, Naidu told Durban High Court Judge Phillip Nkosi that evidence pointed to Pillay committing the murders in a crime of passion, and the rejection from his long-time lover led him to kill her and her daughters. Pillay is accused of killing mother Jane Govindsamy and her two daughters, Denisha and Rackelle, on September 20, 2018, in their home at Thasvir Mansions in Phoenix. Naidu presented cellphone evidence that showed Pillay had been rejected by Govindsamy who had cut ties with her one-time lover shortly before her murder. She said the nine-year love affair between the married Govindsamy and Pillay had suffered after Denisha, her eldest daughter, moved back into her family home. "Denisha may not have been a threat to you, but she was an obstacle. You stopped going to Jane's house after Denisha moved back two months prior. She did not approve of you," added Naidu. She alleged Pillay was incredibly violent when he killed Denisha. "You caught her, grabbed the knife and repeatedly stabbed her in the throat because she was in your way. You folded her like a doll and put her into the cupboard. As you were there at the scene busy with Denisha, Rackelle came home and that is why you killed Rackelle. Jane was your final victim, she was your main target." 'I don't know' - response to DNA evidence Pillay was again left speechless when Naidu presented him with DNA evidence that was found on a TV at the crime scene. "How did your DNA end up on the television set that was removed from the wall? I will put to the court that you tried to make the murders look like a robbery. You had not been in the home for two months. How else could the DNA have gotten there?" A visibly shocked Pillay, who was vocal throughout most of the day, could only respond: "I don't know." The case continues on Wednesday. GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 