Warmer conditions are expected over places in the north, and southern coast, with fire danger warnings across four provinces on Friday. Warnings, provided by the South African Weather Service Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over central and eastern parts of the Northern Cape, the western parts of the North West and the Free State, and the northern parts of the Eastern Cape. Special weather advisories Strong winds are expected over western and central parts of the Eastern Cape on Friday. The weather in your region It will be fine and warm in Gauteng. The expected UVB sunburn index will be high. Morning fog and drizzle are expected in places on the Highveld of Mpumalanga. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and cool but fine in the south. It will be warm in the Lowveld. Limpopo will be cloudy in the central and eastern parts in the morning with fog patches and drizzle. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and cool but warm in the west. The North West will be fine and cool to warm. Fog is expected in the north-eastern parts of the Free State at first. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool, becoming windy in the west. The Northern Cape will be cloudy and cold with fog along the West Coast. Frost is expected over the southern high ground. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy to fine and cool but windy in places in the central parts. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate. It will be fine in the Western Cape. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy to fine and cool. It will become cloudy to partly cloudy along the coast and adjacent interior with light evening isolated showers along the south coast. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate. The Eastern Cape is expected to be cloudy with mist over the southern parts at first. Otherwise, it will be fine and warm, but cool in the north and along the coast. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate. It will be partly cloudy with isolated morning showers in the north-eastern parts of KwaZulu-Natal. Morning fog is expected over the interior. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool, but warm in places. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate.  Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 