A cold day is expected for the Western Cape ahead of a cold front, bringing with it scattered showers on Friday, while the north central and north-eastern parts of the country will be warm. Warnings Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over Gauteng, the North West, Free State and south-western parts of Mpumalanga, as provided by the South African Weather Service. The weather in your region It will be fine and warm in Gauteng. The expected UVB sunburn index will be low. Mpumalanga will have fog patches along the escarpment at first. Otherwise, it will be fine and warm. It will be fine and warm to hot in Limpopo with morning fog patches on the escarpment. The North West and Free State will be fine and warm. The Northern Cape will be fine and cool to warm, becoming partly cloudy to cloudy in the west toward the afternoon. It will be cold over the southern interior where there will be morning frost and fog patches in places. The wind along the coast will be light and variable, becoming moderate south-westerly by the afternoon. It will be partly cloudy in the south-western parts of the Western Cape. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool to cold, with isolated intermittent showers in the morning, spreading over the interior by the afternoon. Morning frost is expected in places over the interior. The wind along the coast will be moderate westerly to south-westerly, becoming strong south of Cape Point by the afternoon, spreading along the south coast by the end of the day. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate. The Eastern Cape is expected to be partly cloudy and cool. The wind along the coast will be moderate south-westerly. It will be partly cloudy and cool in KwaZulu-Natal. It will be warm in places in the north. Isolated showers and thundershowers are expected, except in the north-west. The wind along the coast will be moderate north-easterly north of Richards Bay at first, otherwise it will be moderate to fresh south-westerly. The expected UVB sunburn index will be low. Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days