When he
unexpectedly lost his fiancée last year, Morné Basson knew he had to do
something in her honour. Wilma
Loggenberg had suffered from atypical pneumonia, usually referred to as walking
pneumonia as the symptoms of the disease often go unnoticed. The couple had
met online in 2015 and Wilma’s death rocked Morné (44). Because
supporting motor neurone disease (MND) sufferers was a cause close to both
partners’ hearts, he decided he would attempt to run 72 half marathons in 72
days. “I was at the
memorial service of an MND sufferer in the same church where Wilma’s memorial
service was held,” Morné explains. “Suddenly I got
a word from God telling me to start training again and to focus on a new
challenge.” After the
service, he stopped at a coffee shop and while sitting there, he says, he
experienced similar prompting from God. This time the
number 72 was a clear part of the message. The result was
the 72 Day 72 Half-Marathon Treadmill Challenge. Day 31 DONE ???????? Thank you for all the messages, calls and emails from all over the world ?? Thank you to my running partner for the day @cheryl.fortuin ????‍??????‍?? #mndawareness #goingblue4u #noregrets #72days #guinnessworldrecord @planetfitnessza A post shared by  Morne Basson (@thetreadmillguy72) on Aug 14, 2019 at 4:39am PDT  “It's been a
very tough year,” he says, adding that earlier this year Wilma’s father, Gawie,
died after suffering a stroke. “Life is short.
Life is not fair. We cannot change yesterday. We certainly don't know what
tomorrow will bring. Make today count.” And counting,
Morné certainly is. When we chat to
him, he’s completed a whopping 33 consecutive half-marathons and is in Durban
for the next leg of his challenge. Morné has
partnered with Planet Fitness to smash the current consecutive half-marathon
Guinness World Record of 52. He started his
bid for the world record at Planet Fitness Olympus in Pretoria on 15 July and
since then has run at Planet Fitness gyms in Pretoria, Johannesburg,
KwaZulu-Natal and Cape Town. He aims to finish the challenge back in Olympus on
24 September. “My body is
taking a lot of strain from the repetitive workouts, unlike on the road where
there’s a change in the surface all the time,” he says. “But the human
body can do almost anything – it’s the human mind that’s limiting us. My mind
is stronger than ever!” Morné, who
lives in Roodekrans, Roodepoort, admits some days have been harder than others
but what’s carried him through has been his faith, having a sport therapist on
hand, good supplements and the support of the Planet Fitness team. Day 15 DONE! It was a great run! Thank you to my sport therapist Suretha Seymour for keeping the legs fresh (the smile is because she enjoy every moment seeing me in pain). Never underestimate the value of proper rest, good food, a massage every now and then and most important - good supplementation. I am thankful for having the best ???????????? #mndawareness #goingblue4u #noregrets @planetfitnessza @talentafrica01 A post shared by  Morne Basson (@thetreadmillguy72) on Jul 29, 2019 at 4:00am PDT  “Day two was
tough because I started the challenge with a bad cold,” he recalls. “I was
tired and had to watch my heart rate all the time. Days 19 and 20 were tough
too because I had bad inflammation in my right Achilles tendon.” But his resolve
to complete the challenge for sufferers of the degenerative disease has kept up
his spirits. “MND patients
go through a lot worse on a daily basis – I couldn’t quit!” he says. Morné,
nicknamed the Treadmill Guy, is no stranger to strenuous physical activity In 2015 he
became the first male to complete an ultra-marathon at sea. While working on
the luxury cruise ship Celebrity Solstice in Ketchikan, Alaska, he finished the
90-kilometre Comrades Marathon on a treadmill aboard the ship on the race day. Morné
had wanted to run the Comrades that year but, being so far from home, he had to
get creative. “I contacted
the organisers and told them of my plan. They thought I was being mad but loved
the idea and supported me in my effort.” That year he
also ran to raise awareness around MND. “The
government, medical aid companies and most life insurance companies don’t do
much to assist these patients. I want to show the world what these guys go
through every day – the harsh reality.” Morné
has since started a Back A Buddy campaign to raise funds for a
documentary he plans to make. He’s taking a camera team into the homes of MND
patients to document their daily struggles. Since embarking
on his 72-day challenge, he’s been eating healthily, cut out alcohol and
ensured that he sleeps well. “I
get regular treatment for my legs from the sport therapist,” he adds. “That helps for
quicker recovery and preventing injuries.” So what does he plan on doing after he’s beaten the world
record? Enjoy an ice-cold beer, Morné jokes. “But on a serious note, I’ll have some special
friends and MND patients at the last run to celebrate with me,” he reveals.
“I’m planning something special. It’s a surprise . . . ”