Adam Catzavelos has reached a settlement agreement with the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) relating to a video filmed on a Greek beach last year in which he used the k-word. As part of the agreement, he has to pay R150 000 over a period of 30 months and will once again apologise for his comments. The video was recorded while he was on holiday last year and in it he said he revelled in the fact there were no black people on the beach. "Not one k***r in sight, f*king heaven on earth... You cannot beat this!" The commission took Catzavelos to the Equality Court, sitting in the Randburg Magistrate's Court. It previously proposed that Catzavelos pay R200 000 in damages over a period of 20 months. WATCH: Adam Catzavelos apologises for k-word video Adam Catzavelos - the man behind the k-word slur that was captured on a video clip taken on a beach in Greece - says he feels sorrow and is ready to face the consequences of his actions. The video, which went viral, also sparked national outrage and prompted the EFF in Gauteng to open a case of crimen injuria against him, News24 earlier reported. Catzavelos appeared in the crimen injuria case in another courtroom in the same court earlier on Thursday morning. In that case, the State revealed that Catzavelos' representation to the Gauteng Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) to not be prosecuted, were unsuccessful. ALSO READ | Huge business fallout as family fires racist k-word holiday-maker His lawyer, Lawley Shain informed the court that he intended to take the decision on review and was waiting for the outcome from National Director of Public Prosecutions (NDPP) Shamila Batohi. "We do not agree with the decision and we have since made representations to the NDPP and we will await for that outcome," he said. The matter has been postponed to October 2. He has also been summonsed for the matter in Greece, News24 reported earlier. Minister of Arts and Culture, Nathi Mthethwa since welcomed the settlement agreement and the apology by Catzavelos to South Africans following his court appearance. "We welcome the settlement that has led to Adam Catzavelos being fined with the proceeds going to social cohesion projects & the remorse he showed in his public apology. This will not only be a deterrent but also serve as a platform to educate," he tweeted  on Thursday.   GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter