A gun that was allegedly stolen at Mitchell’s Plain police station on Wednesday 21 August 2017 has been recovered. Leroy Carelse (30) appeared at Khayelitsha Priority Crimes Court on Friday 2 August for illegal possession of a stolen gun which has been linked to a Mitchell’s Plain police station theft case in 2017. According to a press statement, issued by Hawks spokesperson Captain Philani Nkwalase, the police acted on information received on Friday 5 July about a suspect allegedly in possession of an illegal gun in Bonteheuwel. In the statement, Nkwalase said a search was conducted on the alleged premises and illegal items including mandrax tablets, a gun and ammunition were found in the suspect’s possession which led to his arrest. “Preliminary investigation by the national firearm task team (NFTT) of the Hawks established that the seized gun with its serial number filed off was part of the stolen guns at Mitchell’s Plain police station on Wednesday 21 August in 2017.” A total of three guns of the 16 that were allegedly stolen, have been recovered. Carelse made his first court appearance on Tuesday 8 July and was granted R1 500 bail. . In a separate incident, Bonga Gela (37) was sentenced by the same court on Saturday 20 July, for contravening the firearms control act, explosives act and possession of suspected stolen property. Nkwalase said a joint intelligence-driven operation was carried out by crime intelligence and flying squad at C Block, Site C Khayelitsha on Tuesday 17 October 2017. “During the search, police found a R4 rifle with two magazines and 28 rounds, a R5 Rifle with two magazines and 25 rounds, a 9mm police gun with a magazine and 12 rounds, explosive detonation wires, two bulletproof vests and various loose ammunition for different guns.” According to the statement, two occupants at the premises were arrested and all items were seized for further investigations. Gela was sentenced to 12 years imprisonment and a further two years for possession of stolen property.