The Curro private school group has been at the centre of racism allegations yet again following outsourced cleaners' claims that a teacher at Curro Castle Oakdene in Johannesburg called them "monkeys" on July 2. According to The Star, the two cleaners and a teaching assistant were allegedly called "three little monkeys" as they were having lunch in the staff room. The cleaners reported the incident to the school principal and a disciplinary hearing was conducted, which found the teacher not guilty. On July 25, one of the cleaners reportedly told the school that she had opened a criminal case. Police spokesperson Captain Lungelo Dlamini reportedly confirmed this. The school then reopened the case against the teacher, who was suspended, pending an internal investigation. The teacher was again found not guilty. The Star reports that the two cleaners in question have since been fired by their employer, Afriboom. The newspaper could not elicit comment from that company. Curro reportedly said it was not aware of the dismissals. Allegations of racist labour practices This is not the first time the school has been accused of racist practices. In July last year, Mail & Guardian reported that another Curro pre-school had been rocked by allegations of racist labour practices, which had led to the resignation of three black teachers and outrage from a group of parents. According to the report, one teacher told the publication that teaching assistants – apparently all black – used different staff rooms to teachers who were white. This ostensibly changed after complaints from parents. The school investigated the incident and suspended two employees. In June 2015, a video depicting Curro school pupils being led off buses, apparently according to race, while on a field trip, surfaced, causing a furore. White pupils seemingly waited near the front of a car, while groups of other pupils, who appeared to be black, were led off-screen in separate groups, News24 reported. Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi called the behaviour of the controversial Curro Foundation School in Roodeplaat, near Pretoria, "racist" and "disgusting". At the time, the school issued a statement denying the incident had anything to do with race, saying it rather related to the pupils' language of instruction.  GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 