A 24-year-old driver of an e-hailing taxi has been arrested for allegedly raping a female passenger in Protea North, Soweto, earlier this week, Sowetan Live reported. Police spokesperson Sergeant Vincent Mashiteng reportedly said the driver was arrested after a 26-year-old woman told police about the rape on Tuesday night. READ | Taxi driver arrested while allegedly raping passenger Mashiteng told Sowetan Live that the woman told police she requested the e-hailing service to take her from Maponya Mall to her home. Other passengers were reportedly already in the vehicle and were dropped off before the driver took her to a secluded area and allegedly raped her. The driver will appear in the Protea Magistrate's Court soon where he will be formally charged with rape, Mashiteng reportedly said. While police said the man was an Uber driver, the company said while the incident is "regrettable and shocking", there is currently no record of this incident on the Uber platform. Investigating "We are in contact with law enforcement and we're investigating the matter. This would be a clear violation of our community guidelines. We take any incident of this nature very seriously," the company said in a statement. Uber said it had reached out to the police regarding the incident. "We have a dedicated Law Enforcement Response Team (LERT) to manage these types of requests. The safety of our riders and drivers is a top priority. If any incidents are reported, we work to support local authorities with their investigation. Uber's Incident Response Team (IRT) is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week to respond immediately to any reported incidents or accidents globally." Last week, Western Cape police warned e-hailing app drivers to be cautious of criminals posing as passengers after a man was held up and robbed of everything - from his cash to his clothes, News24 reported. Western Cape police spokesperson Captain FC van Wyk said the search for accomplices continues after two people were arrested for holding up a driver in Delft South on August 6. In February, e-hailing service Bolt (formerly Taxify) investigated an allegation that two Cape Town women were stabbed by one of its drivers when it emerged that they did not have fare money. GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 