Woodstock Residents near the site where Pine Road informal settlement was, are pleased with the proposal of a new housing development. These residents say the project will restore the original view of Pine Road and Salmon Street which was lost following the forced removals during the apartheid era. They say the houses on Pine Road were demolished for commercial reasons a long time ago. The planned development came to a halt after the democratic election in 1994. The site has over the years been a home to informal settlement dwellers who were recently moved to Salt River as the City of Cape Town plans to build houses. About 42 Pine Road residents were relocated to their new homes on Pickwick Street in Salt River as part of the City’s first transitional housing facility on Monday 20 May (“Joy as families relocate”, People’s Post, 28 May 2019). According to the residents, this is a good idea to restore the area and remove social ills that were attracted by the presence of the informal settlement. Residents say the plan will be much better for them; an improvement on the sight that was previously an informal settlement. “We do not mind them building houses here as long as it does not lead to traffic congestion. This (Pine Road) is a one-way street; maybe once they have built, it will become a two-way street,” says Isaacs Omar, a resident who has been living there for 30 years. He says Pine Road and Salmon Street residents are a small neighbourhood that take pride in their community. Jameela Lopez (65) who was born in the area, says the City has sent them letters of proposals with a plan for residential complexes. She says that many years ago there were two shops and residential complexes on the open land. “I wish they could make it low-cost housing like it was all the years. But now Woodstock has become a prime area. “It used to be low-cost housing and convenient with the area being close to most amenities. I am quite happy to see that there are plans in place,” says Lopez. According to the letter they received, residents had an opportunity to submit their objections until Monday 5 August. Isaacs and Lopez did not submit objections but indicated that they are aware there could be objections from other residents. “Those would be people that have not been here for long, who do not know our history,” added Lopez. A recent statement by the Mayco member for human settlements, Malusi Booi, confirmed that plans for development are still underway. “The City, as one of the stakeholders, remains committed to driving more affordable and social housing opportunities around City centres on suitable sites such as the site at Salt River Market, Woodstock Hospital and Pine Road, as well as other suitable areas across the city while following due process,” says Booi.