South Africa is awakening from
the Jacob Zuma years. There are mix feelings about
the Zuma presidency. Some who were opposed to his leadership of the ANC and country feel these were nine wasted years. Others who were supportive of Zuma's tenure argue that 'Radical Economic
Transformation' (RET) was set in motion. On both fronts, the jury is
still out. More appropriately, to better
analyse the so-called wasted years, if indeed, they were wasted years, would be
to see the current Cyril Ramaphosa administration addressing unemployment,
poverty and inequality. Until then, it would not be proper to declare the Zuma
years, the 'wasted years'. Just when South Africa was
preparing to to start a new chapter, a 'new dawn', under the leadership of
Ramaphosa, the country finds itself
caught up in a 'no-man's land' scenario. More so, after the weekend
reports that the Public Protector, Adv Busisiwe Mkhwebane, has in her possession
leaked emails of Ramaphosa indulging in communications with donors relating to
his CR17 campaign for the ANC presidency.  Ramaphosa had previously noted
that he was not aware of the happenings of the CR17 campaign as his campaign
managers were in charge of managing funds. The leaks come while Ramaphosa
has called for a constitutional review of the PP reports into the DA's
complaint that he misled Parliament when he said he did not know who the
funders of his CR17 campaign were.  The PP has also charged that Ramaphosa violated the Executive Ethics Code
regarding a R500 000 donation made by Bosasa boss Gavin Watson to his campaign. Some commentary on this issue
has ranged from calls for impeachment if Ramaphosa is found guilty of wrong
doing; to calls that he must step down immediately; and to recent calls
after the leaked reports for Ramaphosa to apologise to the nation. It would be fair to say that
South Africa with all its challenges and ills, is not sure how to proceed. How does a country move forward
while its president's future hangs in the balance? Most South Africans, even the
many who are not ANC members and supporters are prepared to work with Ramaphosa
to make the country a great success, as various surveys reveal. But, the uncertainty of the
current dilemma facing their president, renders many people not to be sure of
what to do next. And should this process prolong
for a considerable amount of time there's likely to be more disillusionment in
the country. The fires burning in the ANC could
grow stronger with the anti-Ramaphosa sentiments gaining momentum at the sight
of a weakened leader. The anti-Ramaphosa brigade led
by Zuma and the party's SG Ace Magashule will sense their opportunity to
finally topple Ramaphosa is possible and real. A further disgruntled ANC and
poorly-led populace are a toxic mix for building the brightest future for South
Africa and all its people.  As a way forward to save the
country from confusion and inaction, Ramaphosa must address the nation on this
matter and give clear direction of where and what his government is doing to
grow South Africa after his 100 days of planning are over and how the rest of
the country can work with his administration to grow South Africa.  Anything short of that could lead his presidency into 'shaky ground', or even worse, his downfall. 