It will be cool across the southern parts of the country on Saturday, while the northern parts are expected to be warm. Warnings Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over the north-eastern parts of the Northern Cape, south-western parts of the North West and western parts of the Free State, according to the South African Weather Service. The weather in your region Gauteng will be partly cloudy and warm, but cool in the south. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate. Mpumalanga will be partly cloudy in the east at first. Otherwise, it will be cool, but warm in the Lowveld. It will be partly cloudy in the eastern parts of Limpopo in the morning. Otherwise, it will be fine and warm. The North West will be partly cloudy in the north-east at first. Otherwise, it will be fine, windy and warm. It will be fine, windy and warm, but partly cloudy in the southern parts of the Free State, spreading along the Lesotho border in the afternoon where it will be cool. Fog is expected along the coast of the Northern Cape. It will be partly cloudy in the south-east at first. Otherwise, it will be fine and warm, but cool in the south. It will be windy in the extreme east. The wind along the coast will be light. It will be cloudy in the western and southern parts of the Western Cape. Fog patches are expected along the West Coast and adjacent interior. There will be rain showers along the south coast at first. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool, remaining partly cloudy along the south-west and south coast. The wind along the coast will be light. The expected UVB sunburn index will be low. The Eastern Cape is expected to be fine and cool but partly cloudy. Isolated showers are expected along the coast. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate. It will be fine and warm, but cool in the southern parts of KwaZulu-Natal. It will become partly cloudy from the east by late morning. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. The expected UVB sunburn index will be high.   Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  