The Presidency and officials who ran President Cyril Ramaphosa's 2017 ANC presidential campaign, known as the CR17 campaign, have yet to comment on an explosive leak of bank statements late last week. The statements, which were widely shared on social media since at least Thursday, show transactions relating to the FNB account of Linkd Environment Services, a Johannesburg company owned by one of the CR17 campaign members, Dr Crispian Olver. The authenticity of the statements has not been disputed. Linkd disbursed funds to provincial co-ordinators and service providers used by the CR17 campaign, according to Ramaphosa's response to an interim report by Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane. READ: Ramaphosa not distracted by 'issues' with Public Protector Linkd's statements were part of a file named "Bosasa 9", the same file name on evidence the Office of the Public Protector filed with the High Court in Pretoria on Wednesday, News24 understands. Deputy Judge President Aubrey Ledwaba granted an order sealing the file following argument from Ramaphosa's attorneys and the Public Protector on Thursday. Ramaphosa's lawyers have until August 26 to peruse the remainder of the Rule 53 record and raise objections to any other documents that they don't want to form part of the public record. The main argument has been that the bank statements and emails that form part of the Public Protector's evidence, contain confidential third party information, Ledwaba agreed. EXPLAINED: The politics of the Cyril Ramaphosa campaign for ANC leadership The horse has, however, now bolted, with the leaking of the statements over the weekend. The statements show a number of payments to politicians, including Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula, Deputy Minister of State Security Zizi Kodwa and Minister of Small Business Development Khumbudzo Ntshavheni. Nelson Mandela Bay ANC councillor Andile Lungisa was one of the first to tweet the statements, expressing his disbelief.  Minutes after Lungisa's tweet, Ekhurhuleni Mayor Mzwandile Masina tweeted a name, Marion Sparg. Sparg was a member of the CR17 campaign and is mentioned in the bank statements.  It remains unclear, however, how the statements were leaked. Here's what else you need to know about what the statements show so far:  GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter