The SA National Defence Force (SANDF) has confirmed the 41-year-old man found burned to death in the boot of a car in Blue Downs earlier this week was a soldier. He was stationed at one of the military bases in the Western Cape, it said in a statement on Friday. SANDF spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Hamilton Ngubane told News24 the car, a Hyundai Accent, was a government vehicle. "Reasons for this painful act are not yet known, and the SANDF is in constant liaison with the Mfuleni SAPS who are investigating the circumstances that led to the incident," Ngubane said. The victim's name will be released once his family has been informed. Defence and Military Veterans Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, secretary for defence Dr Sam Gulube and SANDF chief General Solly Shoke extended their heartfelt condolences to the victim's family and loved ones. Two arrests Earlier this week, Western Cape police confirmed a murder, kidnapping and hijacking case was being investigated after a passer-by made the discovery on Sunday. On Monday, a 43-year-old man was arrested in Blackheath, while a second suspect, aged 24, was nabbed two days later in connection with the case. Theodore Loggenberg made a brief appearance in the Blue Downs Magistrate's Court on Thursday, the Daily Voice reported. His case was postponed. The second suspect has not yet appeared in court. 'We cannot allow gangsters to terrorise' Western Cape Community Safety MEC Albert Fritz has condemned the incident. "I commend the SAPS on the arrests made so far. We cannot tolerate such a gross disregard for the peace and safety of the people in our province. "We cannot allow gangsters to intimidate and terrorise our communities, particularly those who are most vulnerable." Fritz called on the police to determine whether it was a gang-related murder and ensure the arrest, conviction and incarceration of gang leaders who might have given the directive to kill a soldier. "The SANDF has been deployed to assist us in safeguarding the province and we must do everything in our power to support them in this regard," he said. Anyone with information can call 08600 10111.  GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 