 Isolated showers and rain is expected over parts of the country, while it will be frosty over places in the central interior on Saturday. Warnings Gale force westerly to south-westerly winds of 62km/h are expected between the Storms River and Cannon Rocks, as provided by the South African Weather Service. Frost is expected over the interior of the Free State on Sunday morning. The weather in your region It will be fine and cool but warm in the north of Gauteng. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate. Mpumalanga will be partly cloudy and cool to warm but hot over the Lowveld. Isolated showers are expected from the afternoon, except in the extreme west. It will be partly cloudy and warm to hot but very hot over the Lowveld of Limpopo. Isolated afternoon showers and thundershowers are expected in the south. The North West will be partly cloudy in the east at first. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool but warm in the extreme north-east. It will be partly cloudy in the eastern parts of the Free State in the morning. Otherwise, it will be fine, windy and cool but cold in the south. The Northern Cape will be cloudy and cold with isolated showers and rain in the south-west at first. It will become partly cloudy to fine in the afternoon. It will be cool in the north. The wind along the coast will be light and variable. It will be cloudy and cold to cool in the Western Cape. Isolated showers and rain are expected in the west and south during the morning. It will become partly cloudy along the West Coast and over the eastern interior during the afternoon. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate. The Eastern Cape is expected to be cloudy and cool to cold. Isolated morning showers and rain are expected along the coast and south of the escarpment. It will become partly cloudy and fine in the afternoon. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong. It will be partly cloudy and warm in the north-western parts of KwaZulu-Natal. Otherwise, it will be cloudy and cool but cold on the south-western high grounds. Rain and isolated showers and thundershowers are expected, except in the extreme west. The wind along the coast will be moderate. The expected UVB sunburn index will be high.   - Compiled by Naseema Barday Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days