Over the
past two weeks, the government has taken drastic actions against immigrants in
the name of safety and sovereignty. This includes a massive raid on counterfeit
goods sold informally on Johannesburg streets. When the largely immigrant
street-traders resisted, the
police retreated swearing to return. A few days later,
they regrouped and arrested close to 600 people. Many were undocumented, others
had documents in orders. A few were citizens. At
least two were South Africans the police presumed were foreign. Yesterday,
citizens of Soweto continued to "revenge" the police by looting
foreign-run Spaza shops in what appears to have been a locally coordinated
attack. What should
the South African public make about these moves? Although international relations and co-operation minister Naledi
Pandor has argued that xenophobia is "not a nice trait to have",
few others protest these moves. Rather, people across the political and
socio-economic spectrum are celebrating moves to rid South Africa of foreigners
and keep others away. The DA and ANC are fiercely contesting who is tougher on
immigration. The South
African citizenry's unease with people arriving from Asia and elsewhere in
Africa is nothing new. Nor
are they out of line with global trends. Yet the current rhetoric reflects
a stark and dangerous turn. Earlier this
week, South Africa's new head of the domestic branch of the State Security
Agency (SSA) told the media that, "The number one domestic threat is to
ensure that our borders cease to be so porous. …We need to ensure that those
who come into our country, do so lawfully." The previous week, ANC
spokesperson Pule Mabe pronounced that, "The attack on our law-enforcement
officers is an attack on our State and sovereignty, and must never go
unpunished. Not only does this undermine the rule of law, it also poses a serious
threat to the security of our State." Politicians,
citizens, and activists now comfortably frame foreigners as terrorists, a menace from abroad. They not only compete for jobs and
services, they now seemingly present an existential threat. Trading without a licence
ceases is not a misdemeanour but a crime against the state. Foreigners'
presence threatens law and South Africa's aspirations to build a safe and prosperous
land. Immigration becomes synonymous with invasion. To be sure,
South Africa is a dangerous place. Last weekend almost fifty people were killed
in the Cape Flats, an area occupied by the national defence force. Across the
country, dozens die every day in "contact crimes". Local politicians
and advocates are regularly threatened, attacked, or murdered when the speak up
against corruption or deign to challenge incumbents. Citizens desperate for
services and shelter regularly destroy public buildings while the police admit
they fear attack when entering some townships and informal settlements. Almost
everyone who lives here admits, we may have wonderful constitutional
protections, but we remain unsafe. The poorest are at the highest risk.
Something must be done. But are
foreigners the terrorists, lawbreakers and job stealers government is making
them out to be? Two weeks ago, the government released statistics showing that
close to 40% of the country's work force is unemployed. Yet only 3-4% of the population
is foreign, and many of those hire South Africans. Expelling them would do
little to create jobs. According to
police statistics, at a national level crime is not closely correlated with
immigrant status. Yes, many people are trading without licenses or have missing
or outdated documents. But these violations kill no one. Selling fake Nikes is
hardly a threat to formal businesses to elite customers at ten times the price.
The only one being hurt are the global corporations pushing South Africa to
protect their intellectual property. There are foreigners who sell drugs and
assault people. However, their impact on overall crime is next to negligible.
If the police were honest, they would say the same. Yet it is
true that immigrants are associated with terrorism and direct assault on the
rule of law. Yet this assault is coming from the Department of Home Affairs
(DHA), the police, and South African citizens. Take, for
example, the multiple court orders against the DHA to reopen its Refugee
Reception Offices and ensure that asylum seekers and refugees can get the
documents to which they are legally entitled. For years, the DHA has resisted. This is a government department in contempt of
court. This is a government department directly assaulting the constitutional
order. Alternatively,
we might look at the almost constant harassment migrants face at the hands of
police. Years ago, the Johannesburg Metro Police openly admitted seeing "refugees
as mobile ATMs". Research by Tanya Zack and others documents the
protection rackets the police run targeted at immigrants both with and without
papers. Those who do not pay have their goods illegally seized and resold. Customs
agents, border guards, traffic police. They are all in on the game.  These are agents of law enforcement eroding
the rule of law. And what
about this? Since March 2018, at least 213 people have been killed, 1
400 trucks torched and R1.2bn worth of goods lost, largely along the route
between the port in Durban and Gauteng. The
instigators say the trucking industry must stop hiring "foreign nationals"
and are demanding that the authorities do something to ensure that "the
right people" are employed. The All Truck Drivers Foundation (ATDF), an organisation
representing truck drivers, warned that its "war" will continue "until all foreigners are gone". This is domestic
terrorism. Then there
are the gangsters, politicians, and community associations who organise the
attacks on foreigners in the country's townships. Xenowatch research illustrates how these
groups extract money, houses, and others from immigrants to build parallel
governing institutions. Through violence and exclusive rhetoric, they establish
systems of rule that conform poorly with the Constitution. These are mini-gangster
states South African run, violent, and often locally legitimate. South
Africans deserve safe communities. They deserve equality before the law. They
deserve opportunities to work and better themselves. They should have access to
the services promised them. Gangsterism and violence is a threat to state
sovereignty and the constitutional order. Immigration is not. Indeed,
scapegoating foreigners is a distraction. It is a threat to accountable
government, proper policing, and prosperity. Terrorism is an effort to
undermine the state and law. As a group, immigrants are not terrorists. Those
attacking and killing them are. - Loren B
Landau is the South African Research Chair for Mobility and the Politics of
Difference with the African Centre for Migration & Society at Wits
University. Follow him on Twitter: @lorenlandau