Rain is expected along the West Coast and adjacent interior of the Northern Cape and Western Cape on Wednesday ahead of an approaching cold front. Warnings provided by the South African Weather Service Gale force wind of 70-80Km/h is expected between Cape Point and Cape Agulhas. Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over the Northern Cape interior, the extreme western parts of the North West and the Free State, the north-eastern parts of the Western Cape, as well as the northern parts of the Eastern Cape. Special weather advisories Strong winds are expected over the western and northern interior of the Eastern Cape, as well as the eastern interior of the Northern Cape. The weather in your region It will be partly cloudy and warm in Gauteng. The expected UVB sunburn index will be very high. Mpumalanga will be cloudy in the east in the morning with morning fog patches. Otherwise, it will be fine and warm, but hot in the Lowveld. It will become partly cloudy on the Highveld from the afternoon. It will be cloudy along the escarpment and Lowveld in Limpopo in the morning. Otherwise, it will be fine and warm to hot. It will be partly cloudy in the west. It will be fine, windy and warm, but partly cloudy in the eastern parts of the North West, spreading to the central parts. The Free State will be fine, windy and warm. It will become partly cloudy in the east. The Northern Cape will be fine and warm. It will become partly cloudy with afternoon rain in the extreme west, where it will be cold. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong. Morning fog is expected in places along the West Coast of the Western Cape. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and cold with rain. It will be fine and cool to warm in the Karoo and eastern parts of the south coast. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate. The expected UVB sunburn index will be low. The Eastern Cape is expected to be fine, windy and warm, but cool in the north. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. It will be partly cloudy in KwaZulu-Natal at first. Otherwise, it will be fine and warm, but hot in places over the northeast. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. The expected UVB sunburn index will be high. Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  