Two out of three children in South Africa are raised without
their father. For boys, that means not being able to ask dad difficult or
awkward questions when they go through puberty. They don’t have someone with a
body like theirs to guide them, or an example that they can follow. In many homes, women have stepped up to the challenge and
are raising a new generation of men on their own. For Women’s Day, Gillette has
created a film that pays tribute to strong women, telling the story of Gogo
Nozizwe, who raised her grandson, Akhona, by herself. “You may ask yourself why the
world’s largest male grooming brand has chosen to create a campaign for Women’s
Day,” says Mosala Phillips, Brand Director
at Procter & Gamble (P&G) South Africa. “It’s easy to answer. The social
issues of men and women do not exist in isolation. Women have been stepping up
to raise a new generation of men, and we want to pay tribute to them for all
that they do. We also all have a role to play in shaping the next generation,
and we are calling on all South Africans to join us in this task,” adds Phillips. Gillette has partnered with The
Character Company, a non-profit, volunteer-run organisation that focuses on raising
boys to be good men with strong values, positively impacting families,
communities and society, through a long-term MENtorship program. Jaco van Schalkwyk, Dad Founder and Director of The
Character Company says, “I
grew up with an absent father and the impact it had on my life was
staggering. I wanted to create an organisation where I could make a
positive difference for boys facing the same circumstances. The impact that our
MENtors have on the boys in our programme is profound and I hope that this
campaign encourages more people to play a part in raising the next generation.” This Women’s Day, take a moment
to honour the women who have shaped you into who you are today.  Click here
to watch the story of #GogoNozizwe. Here’s how you can join Gillette: 1. Watch
and share the video 2. Donate to this
worthy cause that helps to create a supporting environment for mothers, and
shape the next generation of men 3. Volunteer
your time to MENtor the young boys from The Character Company  This post and content was written, sponsored and provided by Gillette. 