Business
Leadership SA's (BLSA) CEO has called for the removal of Public Protector
Busisiwe Mkhwebane, saying she uses her office for "political
shenanigans", according to a report. Speaking at Stellenbosch
University's inaugural Social Justice Summit, CEO Busisiwe Mavuso accused
Mkhwebane of political bias, according to Business
Day. Recently, the Gauteng High Court
in Pretoria ordered Mkhwebane to pay costs in a case relating to her
investigation of the multimillion-rand Estina dairy farm scandal. The Constitutional Court has also
labelled Mkhwebane as "dishonest". WATCH: 'Mkhwebane's credibility doesn't matter - we care about her findings' - Julius Malema EFF leader Julius Malema says his party will head to the Constitutional Court if Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan's urgent application against Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane is approved by the Gauteng High Court in Pretoria. Mavuso said the Office of the
Public Protector was used to "derail the focus of this country on the
things that we actually should be focusing on". Business Day also quoted Mavuso
as saying Ramaphosa "is not captured by business" and that the
accusations against him have "everything to do with the fightback campaign
that is happening in this country". Meanwhile, Mkhwebane said on
Thursday she has been on the defensive against unwarranted attacks since taking
office in October 2016, News24 reported. ATM comes out in support While addressing the student
chapter of the Black Lawyers Association at the University of South Africa,
Mkhwebane said she believed she was under attack for daring to "touch
those who are seen by some as paragons of virtue". "Now there is a threat to
remove me from office under the pretext that I am incompetent. The argument is
that some of my reports have been set aside by the courts." On Tuesday, News24 reported that on the same day that MPs
decided to ask Parliament's rules committee to draft regulations for
Mkhwebane's removal, the African Transformation Movement (ATM) announced it
would attend a prayer service for Mkhwebane. In a statement, the ATM said its
president, Vuyo Zungula, would attend a mass prayer meeting at the KwaMhlanga
showgrounds on Friday. "It is our confident view
that the Public Protector is fighting for the people of South Africa and will
do whatever it takes to be the defender of the voiceless and poor. "We admire her strength and
conviction and urge her not to be shaken amid the negative press. "The African Transformation
Movement, in support of the Public Protector and representing the people of
South Africa, calls for support of the Public Protector." - Compiled by Jeanette Chabalala   GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 