Embattled Tshwane city manager Moeketsi Mosola has finally signed a separation agreement that will see him vacate his position effective on August 31. The City made the announcement on Friday afternoon, the same day that an extended deadline was meant to come to an end. During a council sitting on July 25, a resolution was passed to enter into a separation agreement with Mosola. The council authorised Tshwane Mayor Stevens Mokgalapa to finalise the agreement with Mosola effective as of July 31. Mosola, however, did not sign the agreement by the end of July, and was granted an extension by Mokgalapa until August 30. He was also granted "special leave". Mayoral spokesperson Omogolo Taunyane told News24 that Lorette Tredoux would remain on as acting city manager. She was appointed by Mosola before he took his "special leave" at the end of July. READ: GladAfrica scandal - Mosola quietly concedes tender was irregular, says official Mokgalapa said since he took office in February 2019, taking into account the atmosphere within the Tshwane administration, he had made a commitment to stablise the City. "The city manager covenanted and we both decided to put the residents of the City first," Mokgalapa said in a statement. "Some of the initial key decisions I took as the executive mayor of the City was the cancellation of the GladAfrica consultancy agreement, establishment of the financial disciplinary board, institutionalising the accelerated service delivery programme and establishing the strategic investment committee." Mosola thanked for his service While Mokgalpa mentioned the cancellation of the GladAfrica contract, he failed to mention Mosola's role in the tender scandal and thanked him for his contribution to the City. He further noted Mosola's handover of the City's performance report for the last two-and-a-half years. "This report basically illustrated significant improvements realised under the DA-led administration to mention but a few," Mokgalapa said. READ MORE: Accounting for GladAfrica – Will Tshwane city manager get away with it? These included attracting 66% of the R10bn investment target set for Tshwane, which created 67% of the 104 000 jobs target set. "We turned around the finances of the City," Mokgalapa added. "The City has maintained a rating of A1.za from 2014 to 2017. As of 2018, the rating was upscaled to Aa2.za by Moodys Investors Service, which is a favourable credit rating. The City has maintained its improved liquidity levels and shown vast improvement in its financial management. "Notwithstanding these achievements, the damage has been done and I believe the City and its residents deserve a clean slate," Mokgalapa added. News24 previously reported Mosola would leave his post several million rand richer, with a guarantee that the only proper investigation into GladAfrica would not get very far. GladAfrica In 2018, allegations of a tender irregularity, which led to engineering company GladAfrica securing a R12bn contract with the City to provide project management support to it - emerged. Mosola was responsible for the GladAfrica contract, which the Auditor-General and independent legal opinions found to be irregularly awarded. It was eventually declared irregular expenditure. The City has been embroiled in controversy over Mosola ever since, with several attempts to have the latter investigated or suspended over his role in the contract falling flat in the council. Mosola initially denied allegations of wrongdoing and claimed all processes were followed in the awarding of the tender, but later made an about-turn, conceding the expenditure for it was in fact irregular as stated by the Auditor-General. GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  