Child killer Heinrich Rossouw has been jailed for 30 years for the 2017 murder of 9-year-old Gerswin Johnson. A fixed 20-year non-parole period has also been enforced, said Western Cape National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila. The sentence was imposed in terms of a plea and sentencing agreement Rossouw entered into with the State in the Western Cape High Court on Monday. Rossouw, now 34, brutally murdered the little boy while the child and his younger brother were on their way to school. In his plea explanation, he told the court what transpired on the day the crime was committed. He said he smoked tik and mandrax, mixed with dagga. After taking a walk up the mountain near his house, he found himself sitting in an open field in Marula Street in Beverly Hills, Kleinmond. It was at that point that he encountered the young boys and asked them why they were not at school. Johnson swore at him in response, he said. Rossouw said he grabbed the boy and threw him to the ground before strangling him and stabbing him in his neck, face and chest. But he didn't stop there. Rossouw used a rock to deliver a final, deadly blow the child's head, crushing his skull in the process. In an attempt to cover up his crime, Rossouw dragged the boy's body away and hid it. He was arrested later that day after eyewitnesses identified him. Rossouw said he entered into the plea deal because he felt remorseful and, although he had smoked drugs earlier in the day, he admitted that he had acted with the "full appreciation of the wrongfulness of his actions as he had the intention to kill the child". Prosecutor Liezel Scholzel told the court the deceased was only 9-years-old when Rossouw murdered him in a callous and vicious manner for no apparent reason. "Crimes toward children, similar to these committed by the accused, are extremely prevalent, with Western Cape child murders ranking the highest in the country," she submitted. GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 