One of the
pioneers of 'cheapies', a firm that has probably been in the game the longest,
is the Gold Leaf Tobacco Corporation, known by its acronym GLTC or sometimes
simply as Gold Leaf. Its brands have been competing with the multinationals
since the early 2000s, the most popular being Sahawi and Pacific. The brains
behind Gold Leaf are the Zimbabweans Yakub Mahomed and Simon Rudland. They
first caught public attention in 2006 when a local company, Mavambo, was raided
by the crime-fighting unit the Scorpions in March that year. The Scorpions had
obtained court warrants of arrest for Mahomed, Rudland and Ebrahim Adamjee, a
South African. According to an affidavit, Mahomed allegedly operated two
related cigarette manufacturing plants, Gold Leaf and Sahawi, which suppos­edly
supplied cigarettes on which no VAT or excise duty was paid. Adamjee allegedly
'controlled the cash generated from the illegal cigarette sales'. Some of the
cash was reportedly laundered through Mavambo and other accounts controlled by
Rudland, who was also allegedly involved in smuggling Sahawi cigarettes. The
investigation came to naught when the warrants were challenged in the Supreme
Court of Appeal. Ultimately the case was formally withdrawn. I recall a
day when the Scorpions came to SARS, requesting us to 'act as complainant' soon
after the raid and while the legal chal­lenge was ongoing. I will leave this
here, since I am legally unable to elaborate on the matter, except to say that
it is highly improper for the state to first act against people using search
warrants, arrest and charge them, and then afterwards look around for
'complainants' to mount a criminal case. Rudland's
empire in Zimbabwe is known as Pioneer Corporation Africa (PCA). Mavambo, the
company raided in 2006, was a transport company and a subsidiary of PCA. As you
will have realised by now, no tobacco manufacturer, regardless of size or
brand, can claim not to have some skeletons in the cupboard. Gold Leaf is no
different. In July 2013, court papers revealed Rudland's relationship with
another 'cheapie' pioneer, John Bredenkamp. At the time, there was a dispute
between them that was playing out in the Zimbabwean courts con­cerning an
amount of about $4.2 million. One insider was quoted as saying, 'You would know
that Rudland had a business relationship with the applicant, who is Sahawi
International Limited, and that interest goes beyond a trading one. In this
regard, I also understand that [Yakub] Mahomed is merely a representative of
him ... Further, you will know from court proceedings that this clever chap
[PCA] would run and receive cash proceeds from Sahawi's local operations and
the dispute allegedly started after a supposed cigarette manufac­turing joint
venture failed to materialise. In 2016,
Gold Leaf Tobacco made news again, when it appealed to the Supreme Court in
Zimbabwe against an earlier High Court order that stopped them from packaging
and selling cigarettes bearing the brand name RG in Zimbabwe. This followed
lengthy litigation with the company Tonbridge Assets Limited and Cut Rag
Processors, who bold the RG trademark. The High Court ruled that the use of the
name caused prejudice to the Remington Gold brand of which the Zimbabwean
company Savanna Tobacco was the licensed manu­facturer. Gold Leaf Tobacco
Zimbabwe then introduced the brand Rudland & George to Zimbabwean smokers
in 2017 while awaiting the outcome of their appeal. The RG brand was, however,
still being sold in South Africa. In South
Africa, from 2002 onwards, while the battles continued between the big boys'
club and the pioneers of the 'cheapies' like Highway Hennie's Apollo,
Ayabatwa's Mastermind and John Bredenkamp's Masters International, Gold Leaf
steadily continued manufacturing and selling its own brands, slowly but surely
growing its market and eating into the share held by the established firms.
Despite the few run-ins Gold Leaf had with the law over the years, and unlike
the fortunes of Mastermind and Masters International, which eventually
collapsed, the firm managed to stay afloat. Indeed, by 2018 it had probably
developed into the largest of the independent tobacco traders in South Africa. Another of the
“new kids on the block” who emerged in the 2000s was Benson Craig, a
manufacturer based in Botswana. As seems to be the case with many of these
smaller players, Benson Craig had its own notorious character. Craig Michael
Williamson is a former South African police officer who was exposed as an
apartheid spy. Later, it was revealed that Williamson was the mastermind behind
the as­sassination of the anti-apartheid activist Ruth First, the wife of the
South African Communist Party leader, Joe Slovo. On 18 August 1982 she was
killed by a letter-bomb in Maputo, Mozambique. In 1984, Williamson sent a
letter-bomb which killed another anti-apartheid operative, Jeanette Schoon
(Jenny Curtis), wife of the African National Congress operative Marius Schoon,
as well as their six-year-old daughter Katryn, who were then living in Angola. Benson
Craig is the only cigarette manufacturer in Botswana and was apparently
established with the help of a government-supported industrial diversification
project. Its stated mission is to provide the Botswana and southern· and
Central African markets with “value brand cigarettes”, of “equal quality to
imported international brand cigarettes, but at half the cost to the consumer”.
The firm also offers to manufacture cigarettes for brand owners who do not have
man­ufacturing facilities of their own and to provide technical advice to
independent cigarette manufacturers in the region. Other new
entrants are United Africa Tobacco Manufacturers (UATM), belonging to the
Rwandan Emmanuel Rutagamirwa, of whom little is known, and Falha Manufacturers
(Pty) Ltd, whose proprietor is Calvin Pillay. First launched with one brand,
Westleigh, it later also produced Westleigh Fresh, Westleigh Sky and Westleigh
Platinum brands, and subsequently added such brands as Yallip, Fame and Lotus.
The latest manufacturer to have entered the market is Best Tobacco Company of
Johannesburg, run by its Lebanese owners Abdul Sabra and Mirna El-Ali. The firm
was briefly a member of FITA before going it alone. It manufactures and sells
the brand Caesar. I have
already explained that the total cigarette market, the complete “pizza”, is not
held by local manufacturers only. Some of the big boys, Philip Morris SA for
example, the makers of Marlboro, do not produce their brands locally but import
them for local consumption. Apart from
the role-players you have already met, it is worth noting that there are many
independent importers and traders who also import various brands for local
sale, and so take a sliver of the “pizza” for themselves. One importer worth
mentioning, purely because I believe them to be among the biggest in the
country, is All Trans Logistics, which functions as a clearing agent. They
briefly featured in a reported court case in 2017 when they imported 200 cases
of cigarettes from Zimbabwe for a local client, storing them in their
warehouse. The case revealed that this consignment (as well as another) was
stolen from the warehouse. Their managing director is Keith Mordaunt, whom you
will come to meet later. There are
simply too many of these smaller clearing agents, traders and importers to
mention here, but probably among the most noto­rious must be CEW Logistics, a
transport company specialising in moving goods to and from South Africa and
Zimbabwe. In November 2011, the company hit the headlines when owner Walter
Cyril and his partner Letisha Pillay, together with SARS officials Waldo
Headger and Nkhensane Maluleka, were arrested following a joint SARS and police
raid at Cyril's house in Bedfordview, Johannesburg. Cyril and Pillay also
operated Tish Maritime (Pty) Ltd, a fairly large customs bonded warehouse. CEW
Logistics was reported to have been an importer of large consignments of
cigarettes from Zimbabwe, which were then stored in Tish Maritime's warehouse.
Tish Maritime also provided similar services to other importers. The four
were ultimately charged with over 200 counts of smug­gling contraband
cigarettes. As the raid unfolded, the prosecuting authority also seized several
assets including a few luxury cars, jew­ellery and immovable property belonging
to the suspects. The scam they stood accused of involved fraudulently affixing
customs stamps to the export documents of cigarettes that were never exported
- in other words, ghost exports. But, as with so many of these criminal
investigations, at the time of writing this case seems to have gone nowhere. I
couldn't find any record of it ever having been seen through to its logical
prosecution. * This extract is taken from Tobacco Wars by Johann van Loggerenberg published by Tafelberg and retailing for R310.