Salvador, Brazil – Paris and the United Nations
called on Thursday for the protection of the fire-plagued Amazon rainforest as
Brazil's right-wing president accused his French counterpart of having a
"colonialist mentality" over the issue. Official figures show nearly 73 000 forest fires
were recorded in Brazil in the first eight months of the year – the highest
number for any year since 2013. Most were in the Amazon. The extent of the area damaged by fires has yet to
be determined, but smoke has choked Sao Paulo and several other Brazilian
cities in the past week. UN chief Antonio Guterres said he was "deeply
concerned" by the fires. Macron calls fires in the Amazon 'an international crisis' "Our house is burning," said Macron in a tweet of the Amazon fires. "In the midst of the global climate crisis, we
cannot afford more damage to a major source of oxygen and biodiversity,"
he said on Twitter. "The Amazon must be protected." France President Emmanuel Macron said the wildfires
were "an international crisis" and called on the globe's most
industrialised nations to address it at their summit this weekend. "Our house is on fire. Literally. The Amazon,
the lung of our planet which produces 20% of our oxygen is burning,"
Macron said on Twitter. "It is an international crisis. Members of the
G7, let's talk in two days about this emergency." That did not sit well with Brazil's President Jair
Bolsonaro. "The French president's suggestion that Amazon
issues be discussed at the G-7 without participation by the countries in the
region evokes a colonialist mentality that is out of place in the 21st
century," Bolsonaro wrote on Twitter. Neighbouring Peru, which contains much of the
Amazon basin, announced it was "on alert" for wildfires spreading
from the rainforest in Brazil and Bolivia. Paraguay and Bolivia are battling separate
wildfires that have devastated large areas of their rainforests. 'Rapid deforestation' Environmental specialists say the fires have
accompanied a rapid rate of deforestation in the Amazon region, which in July
quadrupled compared to the same month in 2018, according to data from the
National Institute for Space Research (INPE). Bolsonaro instead attributes the fires to increased
drought, and accuses environmental groups and NGOs of whipping up an
"environmental psychosis" to harm Brazil's economic interests. "This environmental psychosis lets you do
nothing," the president lamented, adding that it was hampering the
country's development. "I don't want to finish the environment, I
want to save Brazil," said Bolsonaro, a climate change skeptic who had
advocated opening up tribal lands and protected areas to farming and mining
interests since assuming office in January. Bolsonaro's comments come as Brazil hosts a UN
regional meeting on climate change in the northeastern city of Salvador ahead
of December's summit in Chile. A senior Brazilian official defended Brazil's
environmental policy at the conference and said it complied with the Paris
Agreement against global warming. "We are teaching the world how to produce. In
only 29% of our territory we produce food for everyone. "Worldwide, the average land use for
agriculture exceeds 50% – we only use 29%," said Roberto Castelo, an
environment ministry official who was roundly booed by greens at the
conference. Not 'Captain Nero' "I do not defend the burnings, because there
always was and always will be burnings. Unfortunately, this has always happened
in the Amazon," Bolsonaro said, referring to dry season, land-clearing
fires. "But accusing me of being a Captain Nero
setting fire to things is irresponsible. It is campaigning against
Brazil," the president told reporters outside his Brasilia residence. The reference to Captain Nero appeared to be to the
Roman emperor said to have fiddled while Rome burned. Bolsonaro is a former
army captain. Forest fires tend to intensify during the dry
season, which usually ends in late October or early November, as land is
cleared to make way for crops or grazing. "Just think, if the world begins imposing
trade barriers, our agribusiness will fall, we will start to go backwards, the
economy will start to get worse – your life, the lives of newspaper editors,
television owners, the lives of all Brazilians will be complicated, without
exception. The press is committing suicide," Bolsonaro said. 'Environmental pariah' However, there are signs of growing concern from
within the powerful agribusiness sector over Bolsonaro's environmental
isolationism. The governors of Brazil's Amazon states have also
criticised the government for recent decisions by Germany and Norway to suspend
Amazon aid projects. "This week two big German media outlets
expressed the idea that it was time to start boycotting Brazilian products.
It's only a matter of time," Marcello Brito, head of the Brazilian
Agribusiness Association, told the Valor daily. "The question is, who is interested in
transforming Brazil into an environmental pariah," he asked. "We cannot change the president of the
republic. What our sector can do is work, in a unified way, to try to reverse
the damage as much as possible."  GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  