Public Protector Busisiwe Mkwhebane has sought divine intervention as her detractors grow in number and adverse judicial findings against her accumulate. Mkwhebane was prayed over and offered guidance while attending a church service at Alive Alive In Jesus Ministries in Midrand on Sunday. According to TimesLive, Archibishop Dr Modiri Shole said he had invited Mkhwebane because the church's view was that there was a dark cloud hanging over her head. Shole said Mkhwebane was bullied, harassed and intimidated. The church could not "sit back and watch" and decided to invite her for a ceremony. "The size of the pain is the size of the blessing. You must be a woman of integrity. Do not fear even if you live among the lions and the thorns, because God is on your side," Apostle Regina Kgotleng also told her, according to the Daily Sun. (Gallo Images/Daily Sun/Jabu Kumalo) IOL reported that it was not the first time that Mkwhebane "invoked a higher power in her battles". It further stated that while releasing her report into the South African Revenue Service's (SARS) so-called "rogue unit", Mkhwebane quoted a scripture from the book of Esther in a thinly veiled swipe at her detractors. That scripture reads, in part, "...and so will I go in unto the king, which is not according to the law: and if I perish, I perish." A seemingly ominous allusion to the implicit risks that come with challenging powerful state officials in matters of law and politics. (Gallo Images/Daily Sun/Jabu Kumalo)  In recent months, Mkwhebane has faced a growing tide of opposition to her incumbency and there have been calls to Parliament to expedite processes to inquire about her fitness for office in the face of the adverse judicial findings. The Helen Suzman Foundation, Corruption Watch, DA, SACP, Cope, Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse and Accountability Now have all expressed concern about Mkwhebane's incumbency, News24 reported. IOL reported that there was "mixed reaction" to Mkhwebane's church visit. Some praised her for turning to God for help while others likened the visit to those conducted by SABC COO Hlaudi Motsoeneng and former Hawks head Berning Ntlemeza.  GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter