THE per capita murder rate in Nelson Mandela Bay is second only to the crime-ridden Cape Town. This was revealed in recent crime statistics released by The Urban Safety Reference Group in their “State of Urban Safety in South Africa Report”. According to the report 54 out of every 100 000 people are killed in the Bay every year. Port Elizabeth has also been rated as the 45th most dangerous city in the world. Residents have taken to social media with their concerns over the non-operation of CCTV cameras and poor access control in the metro. Some residents are pleading for state intervention and the deployment of the National Defence Force. The metro’s anti-gang unit recently received 10 new police vehicles in an effort to clampdown on gang activity in the city’s northern areas, which is believed to be the main cause of the increase in crime. According to the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality (NMBM), crime in the metro is of serious concern. “It is for these reasons that the municipality is treating the matter as extremely urgent – extraordinary measures will be taken to make sure that the cameras are operational,” acting city manager, Noxolo Nqwazi, said. Eastern Cape Premier, Oscar Mabuyane, has ordered the municipality to ensure cameras were working during his previous visit to Port Elizabeth. Currently, no municipal CCTV cameras are operational in the metro. However, Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, said that Nqwazi, had resolved the issue with Afrisec Strategic Solutions, which previously ran the CCTV system. The municipality cut ties with Afrisec in 2016 and instituted legal action against the company for R92 million. The municipality has stated that Afrisec is not operating on any municipal site and also that no payments have been made to Afrisec. Nqwazi added, “Whatever process will be followed, will be within the confines of the Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA). MFMA does give guidance on processes to be followed in matters of great urgency. “Also, the non-operation of CCTV cameras exposes municipal employees and properties to criminality and harm. This also compromises security on the strategic and critical municipal service infrastructure,” said Nqwazi. According to Nqwazi, the municipality continues to pursue both legal and boardroom engagements on the Afrisec matter. Happy
 
  Women’s
 
 
 Day – 9 August 2019