It will be fine and warm over most of the country on Monday, but the coastal areas will remain cool with some showers, the South African Weather Service says. The weather in your region GAUTENG: Fine and warm. The expected UVB sunburn index is very high. MPUMALANGA: Fine and warm, but hot in the Lowveld. LIMPOPO: Fine and warm, but hot in the Lowveld and the Limpopo Valley. NORTH-WEST PROVINCE: Fine and warm. FREE STATE: Fine and warm, but cool in the east. NORTHERN CAPE: Cloudy along the coast with morning fog where it will be cool, otherwise fine and warm but cold over the southern parts. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong southerly to south-easterly. WESTERN CAPE: Partly cloudy and cool to cold with morning light rain along the south coast and few showers along the south-west coast in the afternoon. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong westerly to south-westerly, but moderate to fresh southerly along the west coast north of Cape Columbine. The expected UVB sunburn index is moderate. WESTERN HALF OF THE EASTERN CAPE: Partly cloudy and cool but warm in the north-east, with isolated showers expected along the coast and adjacent interior. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh south-westerly. EASTERN HALF OF THE EASTERN CAPE: Partly cloudy and warm, but cloudy and cool with isolated showers and rain along the coast and adjacent interior.The wind along the coast will be light westerly, becoming south-westerly by the afternoon. KWAZULU-NATAL: Partly cloudy along the coast and adjacent interior, otherwise fine and warm, but cool in the south-east.The wind along the coast will be moderate southerly to south-westerly, becoming easterly to north-easterly south of Mandeni towards the afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index is high. The temperatures in your city  GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android or iPhone. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   