Right until
the very end, his family and friends believed he’d pull through. So it came as
a shock when FC Prinsloo (43), a professional hunter from Modimolle, Limpopo,
passed away this weekend. FC died in
Polokwane Hospital on Saturday. He was
gored by an injured Cape buffalo in the Makuya Nature Reserve near Musina on
August 13. The animal was in distress after being caught in a trap set by
poachers and FC suffered injuries to his chest and right leg. He was on a
ventilator in hospital, had contracted a serious infection and his blood
pressure apparently dropped dramatically just before he died. On Friday
his relatives and loved ones were still hopeful that he’d make a full recovery
in spite of his critical injuries. However on
Saturday a friend of the family sadly revealed on a Facebook support page: “Jesus has seen fit to fetch FC .
. .” The popular
hunter’s passing is a huge loss to many people, says his employer Stephan van
der Merwe, the owner of Bushman’s Quiver Quality Africa Safaris. “It’s a really
tough time for us and we’re shattered by his death.”  Stephan
says FC’s wife, Estelle, wasn’t at the hospital when her husband died. “She’s a
strong person and is trying to stay strong. She’s going through a terribly
tough time but finds comfort in her faith. Friends and family are also offering
much-needed support at this time.” The family
aren’t up to speaking to the media about FC’s death yet, Stephen adds. The
couple don’t have children. “The
memorial service will probably take place next week but plans haven’t been
finalised. His friends and family are trying to cope with the grieving process.
We’ll take it as it comes from there.” Messages of
support have been received from around the country. “Condolences
to Estelle and the family. May God keep you in His grace and comfort you at
this sad time,” one person wrote on the Facebook support group. “My friend
– you leave a big hole in all our hearts and lives. We’ll miss you a lot . . .
Until we meet again someday,” another wrote.  