Goma
– A one-year-old girl became the third patient to test positive for Ebola in
the densely populated DR Congo city of Goma, local officials said on Wednesday,
adding that she was the daughter of the second patient who died earlier in the
week. "I
have been informed of another confirmed Ebola case at the Goma Ebola treatment
centre," said Aruna Abedi, the chief Ebola coordinator in North Kivu, the
worst-hit province since the outbreak began on August 1 last year. "Vaccination has started at
the Kiziba health centre to cut the chain of contamination. Medical staff and
those who had contact with the patient, and those who had contact with them,
have been prioritised," Abedi told AFP. The latest diagnosis is just the
latest sign that the outbreak is sharply widening, and came just hours after
the announcement that the second patient had died overnight on Tuesday. First Ebola case in Congo's Goma possible gamechanger - WHO The World Health Organization warned on Monday that the first-detected Ebola case in Democratic Republic of Congo's eastern city of Goma could be a game changer in the scale of the outbreak. "The third confirmed case is
the one-year-old girl of the father of 10 who died today at the Kiziba centre.
The girl had already been showing signs of the disease," an Ebola response
official told AFP on condition of anonymity. The first death from Ebola in
Goma – a city of more than two million people on the border with Rwanda with
transport links to many parts of East Africa – sparked a wave of concern when
it was reported on July 16. A day later, the UN's World
Health Organisation (WHO) declared the epidemic a "public health emergency
of international concern", a move designed to step up the global response. Also on Wednesday, it was
announced that 15 people had been quarantined in the neighbouring South Kivu
province, which had previously skirted the epidemic. A total of 1 803 lives have been
lost in the second worst outbreak of Ebola on record, according to figures
released on Wednesday.  GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  