The National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) has saved two fishermen who got into difficulty off Macassar, Western Cape. This came after the emergency operations centre received a report at 10:56 on Wednesday that two men were adrift at sea. The NSRI then activated a search and rescue operation that led them to Pringle Bay. "An extensive sea and shoreline search and rescue operation moving in the direction of Kleinmond and beyond was undertaken when eyewitnesses in Pringle Bay saw a 7m rigid inflatable boat with men onboard who appeared to be waving for help and drifting toward the shoreline," its spokesperson, Craig Lambinon, said. Their boat washed aground on some rocks and the two men were helped to safety. Fire and rescue services paramedics and NSRI medics treated the pair on the scene. They were taken to a local clinic, where they were treated for shock and mild hypothermia. "Where they had washed onto the rocks, the NSRI and the joint emergency services searching for them were approximately half-an-hour behind them, indicating that we would have caught up with them in a relatively short space of time according to our planned and plotted search and rescue grid," Lambinon said. The NSRI commend all parties who contributed to the safe return of the pair to their families who "were emotional but delighted with the news of them being found safe". Meanwhile, the NSRI also evacuated four injured men aboard a bulk carrier approaching Port Elizabeth on Wednesday. The crew of four sustained injuries after a wave broke over the vessel at sea off-shore of the vicinity of Port Edward on Tuesday, the NSRI said in a statement. "Suffering serious injuries, efforts to get medical and rescue teams onto the ship commenced following a request for emergency medical assistance from the ship. "One man suffered critical injuries with fractures to the jaw, hip, clavicle and a suspended neck fracture, one man suffered a fractured femur and hip, one man suffered a fractured Tibia and one man sustained bruising to the head," said Lambinon. Due to unfavourable weather conditions, the patients were treated on the ship and arrangements were made for the ship to enter the port. After the ship docked in Port Elizabeth, the patients were stabilised. "NSRI resucue crew and additional medical teams assisted in ongoing medical care and transferring the injured patients on stretchers to ambulances and they have been transported to hospitals for further treatment – in serious but stable conditions," Lambinon concluded. GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter