Hundreds of residents gathered outside the Mokopane police station in Limpopo on Thursday to hand over a memorandum and demand the arrest of those who murdered two ANC members last week. "They are also demanding the removal of the [Mogalakwena] mayor [Andrina Matsemela]. The marchers are currently peaceful," police spokesperson Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo said. Mojapelo told News24 that police were monitoring the situation and that Limpopo deputy police commissioner Major General Jan Scheepers had received the memorandum. According to the Bosveld Review, residents were protesting following the murder of  ANC leaders Valtyn Kekana and Ralph Kanyane last week. Kekana, 54, was chairperson of municipal public accounts committee in the Mogalakwena municipality, and Kanyane, 32, was the party’s branch secretary in the region. News24 reported that Kekana and Kanyane were seated in a car last Tuesday when they were approached by a man wielding a gun. The man opened fire, before fleeing the scene on foot. Locals in Mokopane believe that Kekana and Kanyane were casualties of the ongoing in-fighting in the municipality. It is understood that Kekana was in the process of investigating alleged corruption in the municipality. He apparently requested a forensic report from the finance department on Tuesday. The Democratic Alliance in Limpopo also believes Kekana and Kanyane were killed because they were at the forefront of exposing corruption in the municipality. Meanwhile, in Kremetart, Giyani, on the R81, residents used burning tyres and stones to barricade the road. Residents there are demanding that a wall be constructed to avoid road accidents, which have resulted in several deaths, Giyani Review reported. Public Order Police were monitoring the protests, police spokesperson Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe said. He said there were no reported incidents or damage to property and that no arrests had been made. GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter