Megan Werner, 17, pilot and founder of the U-Dream Global project, is back in South Africa following the death of her father, Des, 49, in a plane crash in Tanzania on Saturday, Netwerk24 reported. Des Werner and fellow project director Werner Froneman were killed when the support aircraft they were piloting crashed, News24 previously reported. PICS | SA teens to make history with flight from Cape Town to Cairo... in a plane they built themselves Belinda Werner, Megan's mother, told Netwerk24 that she was safely back in the country but was too heartbroken to speak to anyone. U-Dream Global is a programme Megan founded to promote and facilitate innovation among young people. Along with fellow teens Driaan van den Heever and Hendrik Kotze, Megan built a four-seater Sling 4 plane in three weeks. "The purpose of the initiative is to show Africa that anything is possible if you set your mind to it," said Megan on U-Dream Global's Facebook page. Their vision was to build and fly plane from Cape to Cairo. On July 8, the team of teens landed safely in Cairo after visiting several countries. Following the plane crash at the weekend, U-Dream Global posted a brief statement on social media.  "U-Dream Global: Cape to Cairo Challenge is devastated to report that there has been an accident of the flight support aircraft and that the project directors, Des Werner and Werner Froneman, have lost their lives. "No one else was involved in the accident. We kindly request everybody's understanding at this incredibly difficult time. "Our love and thoughts go to Des and Werner's friends and families."  Hendrik Kotze, Megan Werner and Driaan van den Heever in Cairo. (Facebook)  Condolences poured in on social media. Sam Manda, U-Dream Global project spokesperson, told Netwerk24 that the families of the deceased were grateful for all the messages of support. Megan is a Grade 12 pupil at Hoërskool Noordheuwel in Krugersdorp. She has written a motivational book, It's up to Me. GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter