A woman who was
kidnapped as a toddler has been reunited with her long-lost parents almost 30
years to the day after she went missing in the ’80s. Jin Ting, now a mom of three,
was just three years old when she’s believed to have been snatched off the
streets while out by herself to buy fruit for her mom on 28 August 1986. Affectionately known as
Ting Ting, she wasn’t seen or heard from again, and her dad, Guosheng, and mom,
Chen Meiliang, set off on a countrywide search. Guosheng, who’s from
Yingtan City in Jiangxi province, eastern China, recalls how he and his wife
searched for their daughter. “My wife and I worked
wherever we went, travelling to most of the country’s major cities,” he said. But the couple’s search
was ultimately fruitless until their decades-long quest caught the attention of
Chinese missing persons organisation Baobei Huijia (“Baby Back Home”) in March
last year. Staff at the non-profit
organisation, which has reunited more than 2 000 lost or trafficked children
with their parents since 2007, learnt that Guosheng and Meiliang had already
given their DNA to the Yingtan City police database in 2016. They invited Guosheng to
register on Baobei Huijia’s forum, and volunteers soon discovered a woman
matching Ting Ting’s age and description living in Fujian province, which is
also in eastern China.  The woman, who called
herself Ping Ping, had also registered on the forum and was searching for her
parents. On 26 June volunteers
contacted her and asked her to take a DNA test, which confirmed she’s Guosheng’s
daughter. On 13 August the couple
were told a reunion had been arranged. “I didn’t sleep for
days like something was running back and forth inside my heart,” Guosheng said.
“My daughter. Gone for 30 years.” Four days later, almost
to the day Ting Ting went missing three decades ago, she saw her parents in a
tearful reunion in front of the whole village. “She told us she had a good
life and that her foster parents treated her well,” Guosheng said.  The couple plan to accompany
Ting Ting back to her hometown to meet her family. “We’ll properly thank
her foster parents and grandparents for taking such good care of our daughter.” It’s unclear whether
Ting Ting’s kidnapper – and all those involved in her trafficking – will ever
be brought to justice. Source: Magazine Features