 The ANC has
released a statement saying it is of the view that leaked emails from President
Cyril Ramaphosa's successful 2017 ANC
presidential campaign is an attempt to undermine public confidence in him. "The
ANC is not aware of any acts of illegality on the part of a campaign conducted
by any leader of the ANC, including President Ramaphosa. The leaked emails are
therefore nothing but a calculated manoeuvre to defocus and detract from the
immediate task of socio-economic issues and dealing with the challenges of our
economy. "This
is also an attempt to undermine public confidence in President Ramaphosa whose
leadership has been defined by moral and ethical conduct," party
spokesperson Pule Mabe said in a statement on Tuesday. Over the
weekend, News24 published a
report that poked holes in Ramaphosa's claim he knew nothing about his campaign
funding during the build-up to the ANC's 2017 national elective conference,
where he was elected party president. Leaked
emails that News24 obtained showed Ramaphosa was consulted by his campaign
managers on certain potential donors, despite consistent denials from his team
that he was not involved in any fundraising efforts. The leaked
emails formed part of Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane's report into DA and
EFF complaints about a response Ramaphosa had given to DA leader Mmusi Maimane
in Parliament in November 2018. READ: ANALYSIS: Ramaphosa's donors are
hanging him out to dry Maimane
asked about a supposed payment to the president's son, Andile, from
corruption-accused company Bosasa (now African Global Operations). But it
turned out the payment Maimane mentioned was actually a donation to Ramaphosa's
campaign for the party presidency from Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson, which Ramaphosa
himself revealed in a letter to the speaker of Parliament. Mkhwebane
found Ramaphosa had deliberately misled Parliament over the donation and in
reaching her conclusion, she relied on the emails. Ramaphosa indicated
he intended to challenge the report in court. The
governing party said it had reflected on its methodologies for campaigning as
well as funding at a NEC meeting, which took place from July 26 to 29, and
resolved to look into how these processes might be better managed in future. "To
date, the ANC has not had a policy on how to deal with internal campaign
mechanisms or the raising of monies by individual members or groupings involved
in such efforts. The NEC held over the weekend is also of the view that a
thorough discussion is necessary on this matter for clarity," Mabe
explained. He added the
ANC had noted the public interest with regards to funding campaigns ahead of
the 54th national conference and commended the president for being transparent about
these matters. "The
ANC welcomes the actions taken by President Ramaphosa who has acted openly and
transparently by providing a detailed account to the Public Protector on these
matters. "In
discharging his leadership responsibilities, President Ramaphosa has always
placed reliance on the counsel he gets from his party, the African National
Congress," Mabe said. GET
THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android
here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the
latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on
Twitter 