Canny Maphanga Gauteng police have arrested three suspects after seizing goods worth R10m at warehouses in Midrand on Wednesday. "In one of the warehouses various brands of alcohol, including White Horse, Captain Morgan, J&B, Jameson and Smirnoff, destined for the export market were being recapped and several identification marks removed for the purpose of selling them to the local market for cheaper prices," police spokesperson Colonel Lungelo Dlamini said in a statement. Police suspect that these goods are purchased at a cheaper price for export, thereby "fraudulently evading to pay tax included in all the goods sold in the local markets". "In a second warehouse, police seized packing machines, packaged counterfeit spices and packets as well as spice powder in hundreds of bags," Dlamini added. WATCH: Conterfeit goods confiscated in by-law enforcement operation Thirteen bags of counterfeit goods valued at R700 000.00 was confiscated in Tshwane on Wednesday. Two of the three suspects were found on the premises placing spices in counterfeit packaging material. The three suspects have been charged with fraud and charges related to tax evasion. They are being detained at the Midrand police station while police conduct further investigations. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: IPID denies timing of Phahlane's arrest is 'suspicious' Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) Spokesperson Moses Dlamini has denied allegations that Khomotso Phahlane's arrest was a show for the media. WATCH: Robbers make off with woman's phone, bag as she walks in Muizenberg SAPS confirmed that a case of robbery was reported at Muizenberg police station on Tuesday 19 February 2019. The incident allegedly occurred on 9 February at approximately 07:40. Whistleblowers should still come forward says Hawks after Bosasa arrests ormer Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi, former correctional services CFO Patrick Gillingham, and Bosasa official Andries van Tonder, on Wednesday briefly appeared in the dock at the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court. WATCH: Armed thieves attack cash-in-transit guards in Krugersdorp A money truck was attacked by armed thieves after guards were collecting money from a filling station in Kagiso on Monday. WATCH: Thieves ambush and rob sleeping truck driver A video of a truck driver valiantly fighting off a suspected robber who broke into his truck while he was sleeping inside has surfaced on social media. WATCH: Limpopo diesel thief drives off without paying R3 179 bill A white Ford Ranger bakkie was caught on CCTV camera making off with fuel worth R3 179, without paying a cent. WATCH: CCTV footage of brazen robbery at Durban curry restaurant The Copper Chimney at the Chatsworth Centre, near Durban, was stormed and robbed by four men as the restaurant was closing up on Sunday night, East Coast Radio (ECR) reported. WATCH: Quick-thinking motorist leaves hijackers empty-handed A video of a failed hijacking attempt in Johannesburg has surfaced on social media on Tuesday. WATCH: Crash, booze, bang in Cape Town as nearly 12 000 litres of alcohol go down the drain City of Cape Town law enforcement officers popped open more than 16 000 liquor cans and bottles on Thursday as the City prepares for the upcoming festive season.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.