Riaan Grobler and Kaveel Singh WATCH: Three Durban schoolchildren die after being hit by a taxi Three schoolchildren have been killed and another is in a serious condition after they were struck by a minibus taxi on Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, KwaZulu-Natal. The minibus taxi that ran into four learners in Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban - killing three and seriously injuring another - appears to have skipped a red light, according to KwaZulu-Natal education department spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa. News24 reported that the incident happened at around 07:15 on Wednesday. Rescue Care spokesperson Garrith Jamieson said: "On arrival, paramedics were faced with absolute tragedy as a single taxi had collided with four teenage girls on their way to school, dragging them for some way. Unfortunately three of the teenagers had sustained major injuries and paramedics could do nothing for them. One teenager has sustained major injuries and is currently being treated on the scene by advanced life-support paramedics." READ: 3 Durban schoolchildren killed by taxi The roadway has been closed and authorities were on the scene to investigate, Jamieson said. Mthethwa told News24: "The MEC for education in KwaZulu-Natal [Mthandeni Dlungwane] has expressed shock and is heartbroken following the accident. "The preliminary report suggests that the minibus taxi crossed a red robot and [ran into] these learners. We have been informed that one learner has been rushed to hospital." Mthethwa confirmed the death of three teenage girls, who were pupils at the Newlands East Secondary School. "The MEC said he would be visiting the families of the deceased to pay his respects," Mthethwa said. A distraught family member is unable to go up to the scene. She sits on the pavement and cries. Community members also hurl insults at passing taxi drivers. This is not the first incident in this area #Newlandscrash (@kaveels) pic.twitter.com/whXK9ZkNdH  Tires are now full on burning. The community are also throwing stones at any passing taxis. This after three Newlands East Secondary School girls were knocked and killed in a hit and run. #Newlandscrash (@kaveels) pic.twitter.com/bWYYQBQPY3   Fatal pedestrian crash. Three school children have been killed, one critical. Inanda Rd near VN Naik School. @ECR_Newswatch @IamAlexSweet @IOL @News24 @eNCA @_ArriveAlive @ecrtraffic @FatalMoves @TrafficSA @DailyNewsSA @TheMercurySA @weekly_gazette @bereamail @HighwayMail pic.twitter.com/v91dYmb321 KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Four bus crashes in one day leave 150 injured, two dead in KZN Helicopter footage of a bus that crashed into a home in Tongaat, KwaZulu-Natal has emerged online.

According to the KZN emergency medical services, over 150 people suffered serious to moderate injuries in three other incidents in the province. Quick-thinking couple saves sleeping man in burning Durban beachfront building A man was saved at the Durban beachfront on Friday morning, thanks to some quick thinking. WATCH: Newborn found in bin might get a new lease on life An abandoned KwaZulu-Natal newborn found in the bin might soon have a new place to call home. Watch. WATCH: Durban thieves give up after relentless pursuit by security officers Two suspected thieves were arrested by Marshall Security after they tried to steal a vehicle from Musgrave Road in Berea, Durban. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. WATCH: 'Unruly' passenger forcibly removed from Kulula flight A passenger was forcibly removed from a Kulula flight bound for Johannesburg from Durban on Sunday night. WATCH: 'That's why Julius must take the land' - woman's Clicks rant goes viral Video footage of a woman verbally attacking a fellow customer at a Clicks pharmacy in Durban has been widely circulated on social media. Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. WATCH: Ramaphosa tees off ahead of ANC's manifesto launch President Cyril Ramaphosa enjoyed a day of golf on Friday morning ahead of  the ANC's birthday celebrations and manifesto launch on Saturday. Ramaphosa played alongside paired players at the Mount Edgecombe Country Club Estate in Durban. WATCH: Witness says she was 14 when pastor Timothy Omotoso started molesting her The first witness has taken the stand of the trial of controversial pastor Timothy Omotoso, taking place in Port Elizabeth. What you should know about cruising with MSC Musica in South Africa Gabi Zietsman from Traveller24 visited the MSC Musica in Durban's port for the launch of the summer cruise season in South Africa, and picked up a few tips for first-time passengers. 'Our rail system has gone to the dogs' - DA protests at Prasa offices The Democratic Alliance held a picket outside the offices of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA) in Hatfield, Pretoria on Wednesday. 78,000 x 550? This boy knows the answer Sibahle Zwane is only 10, but his maths skills have made him an internet sensation in South Africa. 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Here are 7 things you may not have known about Babes Wodumo She's one of the most popular female artists in South Africa at the moment, but how well do you actually know Babes Wodumo? (Photos: Gallo Images) Who should own South Africa's land? Plans to redistribute land from white farmers to landless blacks are raising deep feelings. Here's why. Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. WATCH: Journalists manhandled and barred from Durban City Hall The South African National Editors' Forum (SANEF) on Tuesday released a statement condemning the "unconstitutional and chilling action" taken against journalists at the Durban City Hall. South Africa's contestant is crowned Miss Universe South Africa's Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters has been crowned Miss Universe. The 22-year-old, who recently earned a business management degree, beat 92 other women from around the world. South Africa pledges $4.9 bln Eskom bailout South Africa will give state power utility Eskom 69 billion rand ($4.9 billion) over three years, Finance Minister Tito Mboweni said while delivering the key part of the country's budget on Wednesday. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine. WATCH: Woman abducted in Durban Morningside hijacking, found safe Following a frantic search, authorities have found a Durban woman who was hijacked and abducted in Morningside on Friday morning. Mass powercuts in South Africa, sabotage denied South Africa has suffered a third day of powercuts caused by major problems at the main energy supplier Eskom. The government has only recently announced plans to split the company up. Eleven taxi drivers shot dead in South Africa Gunmen shot dead 11 taxi drivers returning to Johannesburg from the funeral of a colleague in Kwa-Zulu Natal. WATCH Hundreds of flamingo chicks admitted to SANCCOB for life-saving rehabilitation Over 2 000 abandoned and distressed flamingo chicks were jetted all over South Africa this week as part of a series of mercy flights from Kimberley after their habitat came under threat due to water problems. WATCH- Durban metro police officer among 3 dead in CBD shooting A metro police officer is among three people who were killed in a shooting near the KwaZulu-Natal High Court in Durban on Monday morning. Cruising from Durban to Pomene - and the craziness in-between Onboard the MSC Musica, taking a trip from port city Durban in South Africa to Mozambique's tropical Pomene can be quite a madhouse holiday. Newborn baby rescued from storm drain in SAfrica Rescue workers in South Africa pulled a newborn baby from a storm drain in a four-hour operation that ended with applause and cheers from onlookers. Newborn baby girl pulled out of South African storm drain Emergency services were called after cries were heard coming from the drain in Newlands East, near Durban in South Africa. Following a three-hour rescue operation, police are now investigating how the baby got there in the first place. WATCH: Two of these KZN home invaders were killed by police Two suspects from the notorious "Mercedes Gang" were killed in a shoot-out with police while robbing a home in Durban North on Tuesday. Drake to executive produce teen drama 'Euphoria' Actor turned rapper Drake is returning to high school to executive produce a new TV series starring Zendaya. Preview: 2018 Currie Cup final in numbers Here are some key numbers ahead of Saturday's Currie Cup final between Western Province and the Sharks at Newlands. 'Motivated' Province ready to turn it on against the Sharks Centre Ruhan Nel says that Western Province are motivated to perform at Newlands ahead of the Currie Cup final against the Sharks this weekend. WATCH: Bus burnt as protests erupt in Durban An eThekwini Metro bus was torched in Durban as protests erupted on Monday. WATCH | Wife, colleagues pay tribute to metro cop killed by taxi A Durban metro police officer, who was run over and killed while on duty outside the Galleria Mall in Amanzimtoti, will be laid to rest on Monday morning. WATCH: Durban baby rescued from storm drain a 'miracle' - doctor The newborn baby that was rescued from a stormwater pipe in Durban on Monday morning is in good health, her attending physician has said. 'I dream of being an astronaut' – Durban matriculant with 11 distinctions A Durban matriculant who achieved 11 distinctions in 2017's IEB examinations says she dreams of being an astronaut. Newborn baby rescued from storm drain The infant was pulled alive from the pipe after a three-hour operation in Durban. WATCH: Community protests over housing in Mariannridge, Durban Mariannridge residents blockaded roads with burning tires and tree logs during a protest over housing in the area on Tuesday. WATCH. WATCH: 7-year-old caught on camera stealing cellphone A video of a young child stealing a cellphone from a hair salon in Chatsworth, near Durban has gone viral online. WATCH: Diver struggles to wade through trash in Durban harbour Video footage of a diver struggling to make his way out of the Durban harbour due to a line of trash has surfaced on social media. WATCH: Durban metro police and taxi driver get into heated argument A video of an altercation between a metro police officer and a taxi driver in Durban, is making the rounds on various social networks. WATCH: Rescue workers attempt to save baby from drain pipe A dramatic rescue of an apparent newborn is underway in Durban after passerby's heard the child's cries on Monday morning. WATCH: Brother of slain Durban businessman says they will not accept an apology "We won't accept an apology from a hitman," said the family of a Durban businessman whose murder was caught on camera in August.

Kidesh Ramjettan was killed execution style in August in a hit at his petrol station in Rossburgh, south of Durban. WATCH: Rescuers save newborn baby girl in three-hour operation A newborn baby girl has been saved after emergency services conducted a three hour mammoth rescue from a storm drain pipe in Durban.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.