Riaan Grobler Parts of South Africa felt a tremor on Monday night as a result of a 6.3 magnitude earthquake in Botswana. #Tremor was trending into this morning, with South Africans giving their hilarious reasons behind the tremor.WATCH Residents in the Johannesburg area took to social media on Friday morning in reaction to a tremor that was felt across the city just before 07:00. While some were concerned, most reacted with typical South African humour, with one person apologising, saying he wouldn't have beans for breakfast again. People reported windows and buildings shaking and the word "tremor" was trending within minutes. News24 attempted to contact the Council for Geoscience but could not reach anyone for comment. Once comment is received, it will be added. Tremors in the Witwatersrand area are not uncommon and seldom pose a real threat, such as this one in Klerksdorp in 2017, and another east of Johannesburg in 2016. Here's what people had to say.       KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Weekend hail leaves parts of Pretoria covered in ice Severe weather conditions hit large parts of Gauteng this past weekend after the South African Weather Service (SAWS) issued a notice for severe thunderstorms across the province. WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. WATCH: 'Total Shutdown Gauteng' hands over letter of demand at JSE Members of the Total Shutdown Gauteng grouping marched on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) on Tuesday, demanding a full audit of coloured representation in listed businesses and a commitment to rectifying the lack of coloured representivity. South Africa's white farmers seek role in land reform as economic pressure grows White South African farmers are seeking a role in land reform as the ruling ANC moves to change the constitution to allow for the expropriation of white-owned land to rectify racial ownership disparities. South African elections set for May 8: president South Africa will go to polls on May 8, President Cyril Ramaphosa announces as he set out his stall for the election in a state-of-the-nation address focused on reviving the economy. Couples marry on Robben Island in tribute to Mandela On Valentine's Day, couples tie the knot on Robben Island in South Africa to pay tribute to Nelson Mandela who spent time in prison on the island during Apartheid. WATCH: Queuing won't guarantee university admission The University of Johannesburg is urging prospective students to register online Instead of queuing on campus. 78,000 x 550? This boy knows the answer Sibahle Zwane is only 10, but his maths skills have made him an internet sensation in South Africa. Local celebs shine on SA Fashion Week red carpet Local celebs came dressed in the finest fashions as they stepped onto the red carpet at the Cruz Vodka SA Fashion Week launch party in Johannesburg. 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Quick Guide to Mauritius Approximately 3 075 km from SA, the island paradise of Mauritius covers a relatively small area of 2 040 km2 and is one of the hottest destinations for SA travellers. Here's why (Photos: iStock) WATCH: Joburg security guard wounded in shootout with armed robbery suspects A security guard was shot and wounded as he investigated a suspected business robbery on the corner of Prichard and Mooi Streets in Johannesburg last Saturday afternoon. Here are 7 things you may not have known about Babes Wodumo She's one of the most popular female artists in South Africa at the moment, but how well do you actually know Babes Wodumo? (Photos: Gallo Images) Who should own South Africa's land? Plans to redistribute land from white farmers to landless blacks are raising deep feelings. Here's why. Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. South Africa's contestant is crowned Miss Universe South Africa's Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters has been crowned Miss Universe. The 22-year-old, who recently earned a business management degree, beat 92 other women from around the world. South Africa pledges $4.9 bln Eskom bailout South Africa will give state power utility Eskom 69 billion rand ($4.9 billion) over three years, Finance Minister Tito Mboweni said while delivering the key part of the country's budget on Wednesday. WATCH: Celebs walk the red carpet at Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 Local and international celebrities took to the red carpet at the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine. How to speak 'Black Panther' The official language of Wakanda is isiXhosa - also spoken in parts of South Africa South Africa: Muti - a threat to nature In order to meet the huge demand for the traditional remedies known as 'muti', plants in South Africa are being harvested on a scale that is no longer sustainable. The pepper-bark tree, for example, is widely used, even though it is endangered. South Africa's venomous and most dangerous spiders Do you know how to spot a potentially dangerous spider? Learn about South Africa's venomous spiders and how to protect your family. 8 Incredible hikes in SA that will clear the mind South Africa is blessed with some of the best hiking trails in the world, but here's just a few to get you started on planning your next trek through nature. WATCH: This 30-year-old family business is a school hotspot for Joburg families Gauteng schools open on Wednesday and parents are on the hunt for affordable school uniforms. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. Mass powercuts in South Africa, sabotage denied South Africa has suffered a third day of powercuts caused by major problems at the main energy supplier Eskom. The government has only recently announced plans to split the company up. WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. South Africans confront a gloomy economic outlook South Africa's economy has entered recession for the first time since 2009, dealing a blow to President Cyril Ramaphosa's economic reform agenda. Johannesburg's grandest old colonial club seeks new image With its imposing columned facade, hunting trophies and oil portraits, the Rand Club in Johannesburg's city centre is a relic of South Africa's colonial and apartheid past. But Alicia Thompson, a black woman born in Johannesburg, is seeking to rep... Tiny S. Africa beach restaurant crowned best in world When it comes to fine dining, the isolated South African fishing village of Paternoster probably wouldn't be the first place you'd think of. And yet, a tiny beach restaurant in this town in South Africa's Western Cape has been crowned the world's ... WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. Newborn baby girl pulled out of South African storm drain Emergency services were called after cries were heard coming from the drain in Newlands East, near Durban in South Africa. Following a three-hour rescue operation, police are now investigating how the baby got there in the first place. Tiny S. Africa beach restaurant crowned best in world Kobus van der Merwe, owner of the award-winning Wolfgat restaurant in Paternoster, South Africa, says that despite the global acclaim, they will keep things the way they are at Wolfgat. Merwe recalls the shock he felt when he found out that his sm... WATCH Hundreds of flamingo chicks admitted to SANCCOB for life-saving rehabilitation Over 2 000 abandoned and distressed flamingo chicks were jetted all over South Africa this week as part of a series of mercy flights from Kimberley after their habitat came under threat due to water problems. WATCH: Freedom Park residents demonstrate outside Luthuli House Luthuli House in the Johannesburg CBD should brace itself for a "sleepover" if the Gauteng government doesn't address issues raised by landless residents of Freedom Park in the south of the city. 1 out of 3 conference delegates come back to SA for a holiday, bringing their family and friends Leisure incentive travel is relatively small for South Africa and the continent as a whole, as a result it is the major congresses and conferences that really matter, says South African Tourism Minister Derek Hanekom. Eleven taxi drivers shot dead in South Africa Gunmen shot dead 11 taxi drivers returning to Johannesburg from the funeral of a colleague in Kwa-Zulu Natal. Miley Cyrus is in Cape Town, South Africa Miley Cyrus was spotted shopping in Cape Town, South Africa. WATCH: No injuries or fatalities in South African factory fire Johannesburg emergency services spent hours trying to contain a fire that broke out in a glue and paper factory in Kya Sands, Johannesburg, on Wednesday morning. WATCH: Chinese national shot and wounded, cash stolen in Johannesburg A Chinese national was shot and wounded and cash stolen out of his vehicle when several armed robbers pounced on his car south of Johannesburg yesterday. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. Khumbula - Dandyness with a political message In South Africa a collective of fashion-forward dandies are challenging stereotypes about life in the country's townships. The group, called Khumbala, hails from Alexandra in Johannesburg. Michael B Jordan walks the red carpet at Creed 2 screening in South Africa Sandton City, Johannesburg was filled with fans on Saturday night as Creed 2 star Michael B Jordan hit the red carpet to promote the upcoming movie. Africa's first "ATM pharmacy" Africa's first "ATM pharmacy" has just opened, north of South Africa's main city, Johannesburg. WATCH: New footage has emerged following clash by 2 rival church groups in Joburg New video footage has emerged of the widely reported clash outside the International Pentecost Holiness Church in Zuurbekom, west of Johannesburg last Thursday. AB expects high quality cricket in Mzansi Super League Tshwane Spartans captain AB de Villiers admits that he is proud of South Africa hosting its own T20 tournament and expects an entertaining Mzansi Super League. Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. WATCH: Premier David Makhura receives letter of demand from coloured communities Residents in Gauteng communities affected by gang violence marched in Johannesburg on Friday to hand over a letter of demand to Gauteng Premier David Makhura.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.