Kamva Somdyala Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga. (Boipelo Mere) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga says she is confident that her department will eradicate the remaining 3 898 pit latrines in the country's schools "within the next three years". To date, 787 schools have been provided with appropriate sanitation facilities, with construction at 841 schools either in the planning, design or building phases. Last year, President Cyril Ramaphosa launched the Sanitation Appropriate for Education (SAFE) initiative in an attempt to rid schools of pit latrines. In March last year, Lumka Mkhethwa, 5, drowned in a pit latrine. Four years ago, Michael Komape, 5, died in a pit latrine. Motshekga lauded her department, saying it was important to keep in mind that the eradication of pit latrines did not start with the launch of the SAFE initiative, but started in 2000 and since then "10 621 schools have been provided with sanitation". "Many of those that remain are those with particular requirements, for example no water-borne sewerage systems and they require alternative sanitation technology." ALSO READ:  R3.4bn for SAFE initiative The minister added that the department was working with other departments to find the most sustainable solutions for these schools. During his 2019 budget speech, Finance Minister Tito Mboweni said he had been given a directive from the president to ensure that all schools have safe and appropriate sanitation. "Nobody should learn in a school that is unsafe. Our children must have access to adequate sanitation," said Mboweni. According to Motshekga, National Treasury has allocated a total of R3.4bn to the SAFE initiative over the 2019 medium-term expenditure framework. The private sector has already pledged R256m to date. "The SAFE initiative will be delivered through an integrated delivery model, led by the DBE (Department of Basic Education) and working with and through the provincial education departments and partnering with sister departments, such as the national and provincial treasuries, the Department of Water and Sanitation and the national and provincial departments of public works," said Motshekga. Motshekga also said her department had identified clear time frames and delivery models "to ensure that while we are delivering sanitation infrastructure, this will also benefit local small businesses". "We are confident that within the next three years we would have eradicated the remaining 3 898 pit latrines in schools," added Motshekga. WATCH: Grief, anger as Durban community mourns teenagers killed by taxi Grief-stricken Newlands East residents became enraged on Wednesday after a minibus taxi ran into four secondary school pupils in Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, killing three. WATCH: Holy Cross primary in Cape Town on fire Firefighters were called out to Holy Cross RC Primary School in the Cape Town CBD after plumes of smoke were seen emanating from the premises. WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral. From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg. WATCH: 10-year-old whizz-kid solves complex maths problems in just seconds 10-year-old Sbahle Zwane was in pre-school when his teacher first noticed his extraordinary gift with numbers. The Grade 4 learner first gained popularity for his impressive mental maths skills after videos of him went viral on social media. WATCH. WATCH: New toilet uses 2 litres of water instead of the average 11 litres A new toilet that uses only 2 litres of water instead of the average 11 litres could be a new fixture in South African homes.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.