Correspondent Johan van Rooyen (9) with a rinkhals.  (Felix Dlangamandla) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 9-year-old boy from Meyerton is a qualified snake catcher who has already caught venomous snakes such as cobras, puff adders and rinkhalses, Beeld reported on Monday. Johan van Rooyen, a Grade 4 pupil at Laerskool Voorwaarts, reportedly completed a one-day course at African Reptiles and Venom in Diepsloot to earn his certificate in snake catching. Johan told Beeld that he had to catch some of South Africa's most venomous snakes to earn his certificate. According to the boy's dad, also Johan, his son's interest in snakes began at a very young age when he came upon a brown house snake eating a gecko. WATCH: Prodigious python causes stir in Kathu A prodigious python, filmed slithering up a tree, caused quite a stir in the small town of Kathu in the Northern Cape. He realised that a snake-catching course was the obvious way forward for young Johan. Beeld reported that the younger Johan has already been called out to catch snakes on two occasions - once at a residential property and another time at a sports club. Both snakes were rinkhalses.  Johan van Rooyen (9) from Meyerton catches a rinkhals. (Felix Dlangamandla)  In October, News24 interviewed a number of snake experts, who agreed that trying to catch or kill a snake in your home is not a smart idea. The closer you get to one of these creatures, the more likely it is that you will get bitten. READ: There's a snake on my stoep! This is how to handle slithery visitors Johan agrees. "Stay at least 5m away, don't move for 30 seconds and then back away slowly," the young snake catcher told Beeld. Snakes don't just roam the bush. They can be found in people's homes - under fridges, in cupboards, on curtain rails, in ceilings, pretty much anywhere, according to snake experts News24 interviewed in 2018. Durban-based snake expert Byron Zimmerman told News24 that, should you be bitten by a snake, regardless of what type it is, the best thing to do is to get to a hospital as quickly as possible."Contact someone to let them know you've been bitten so that when you become unconscious, they will know what has happened. Don't waste time trying to catch or kill the snake. Snake bites can cause death quickly in certain cases." Snakes have different types of venom that have different effects on people.One is a neurotoxin that a black mamba carries which affects your central nervous system and shuts down your heart and lungs. Another common venom is a cytotoxin, which spitting cobras and adders carry, which destroys tissue and causes an incredible amount of damage. Health24: Where snakebites are deadliest Another type of venom is called a haemotoxin, found in, among others, the boomslang, that affects one's blood's ability to clot and causes death through internal bleeding. People who encounter snakes at homes or in offices can find a snake removal expert by visiting snakeremoval.co.za. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Mozambique spitting cobra keeps Durban neighbourhood on its toes A 1.4 meter Mozambique Spitting Cobra was captured outside a house in Verulam, Durban yesterday. WATCH: Huge cobra on the loose in Pretoria apartment block's drainage system Residents of a block of flats in Pretoria East are in for a slithery night as a venomous snouted cobra has taken refuge in the drainage system. Snake snacks on chameleon that's given up on life This chameleon just accepted its fate when this snake came knocking. Carpet python with 511 ticks caught in Australia A snake has been found in a garden pool in Queensland, Australia, with 511 parasitic ticks biting into its skin. This tiny Chinese village is making a killing off a very poisonous business Zisiqiao, a small village located in eastern China's Zhejiang province, has become popular thanks to its outrageously high number of snakes. Snake farming has now become a lucrative business for locals, and the village is home to 100 of them. The ... WATCH: Infamous snake pastor strikes again, this time feeding dog meat to congregants Controversial "snake pastor" Penuel Mnguni who has fed snake and rat to his congregants has now chosen dog meat for communion. Snake blood is on the menu for U.S., Thai troops Thai soldiers led a jungle survival training for foreign marines on Thursday as part of the annual Cobra Gold exercises, Asia's largest multi-national military drills. Indonesian police apologises after using snake to extract confession from suspect Indonesian police apologised after a video circulating on social media showed officers using a snake to extract a confession from a suspect. "I got to hold a koala, snake & feed kangaroos" Osaka ahead of WTA Brisbane US Open champions Naomi Osaka and Sloane Stephens, WTA Tour Finals winner Elina Svitolina and two-time Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova look ahead to this week's season-opening Brisbane International. Two-metre long snake found in Tower Hamlets A two-metre long snake was found in Tower Hamlets. Members of the public located a Safer Transport team who then safely caught it. What a load of crocs! Wade Kelly's drone captured dozens of the reptiles on camera this week, sunbathing by the Daly River in Australia. Bad hunting skills This snake fails whilst trying to catch the mouse. Steve Irwin's family unveil star on Hollywood Walk of Fame Steve Irwin's family are joined by a four metre snake as the late crocodile hunter was honoured with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Did St.Patrick Banish All the Snakes From Ireland? For millions of people St. Patrick's Day is cause for celebration, but where did the whole ridding Ireland of snakes story come from? Watch deadly baby spiders escape their home A cluster of funnel-web spiders coming out of an egg sack. They are extremely deadly in Australia and are milked of their venom to make anti venom. Couple keep hundreds of reptiles and creepy crawlies in their London flat Meet the couple who have more than 300 creatures they keep as pets in their west London flat. The creatures range from stick insects to a chameleon. They also have a tortoise called Toby, a tarantula called Rosie and four snakes. 'I inject myself with snake venom' Meet Steve Ludwin. He's 51 and for the past 30 years he's been injecting himself with snake venom. He says it hurt - a lot - at the beginning but now his body is almost immune and he's donating his blood to science. Giant python captured in Singapore home A Singapore man caught the 1.5m (5ft) long snake in his home using a stick and plastic bag. Snake Island In the south Pacific Ocean there is a tiny island, it is home to a species of venomous sea snake. While this snake lays its eggs on land it seems that nobody has ever been bitten. If you enter the ocean of Nuie you will be swimming with snakes. Snake hunter bags 14ft python It came at the start of a programme to cut the number of Burmese pythons in Florida's Everglades. Must Eats In HK: Part 1 Snake soup and roast goose, taste better than it sounds.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.