Melanie Gosling, Correspondent The small town of Riviersonderend got the lion's share of the recent rains where 275mm fell on one farm in just under nine hours – flooding fields, destroying fencing, pumps and killing 75 sheep. The floodwaters swept through the farmhouse and the family had to evacuate. Wesseljan van Deventer, whose farm Blydskap is about 2km from the N2 outside Riviersonderend, said the farm had 351mm between Friday last week to Tuesday morning. "From about 04:00 on Monday to 12.30, we got 275mm. We lost 75 sheep, mainly young animals, that got trapped in the corners of the camps and they trampled each other under the water," Van Deventer said. "The house is full of water, we can't stay there. It came from the lands right through. Our water supply is gone, the pumps and the pipes, and fencing. You can't walk through the lands. There has also been a lot of soil damage, soil loss. But that's the game in farming. I would rather have floods than drought. We'll survive this."   The flooding closed the N2 near Riviersonderend on Monday. While some have called this "early winter rain", Henning Grobler of the SA Weather Service said it was a cut-off low pressure system that caused the widespread rain. "It's definitely not early winter rain, and it's not summer rain either. Cut-off low systems are not uncommon, and generally give a fair amount of rain. They often result in heavy downpours in just a few hours," Grobler said. The weather service describes a cut-off low as part of a low pressure system that becomes cut off from the main circulation. It loses momentum and can "just sit for days" before dissipating. They bring a range of weather types, including torrential rain, and are one of the main drivers of flood damage. Although the rain was widespread, from the West Coast across the southern part of the Western Cape to the Tsitsitsikama and Little Karoo, the rainfall was patchy, and none as high as that of the Riviersonderend area. The SA Weather Service said rainfall measured on Monday was 145mm in Riviersonderend, 37mm in Swellendam, 48mm in Riversdale, 22mm in Ladismith, 25mm in both Robertson and Worcester, 32mm in Porterville, 21mm in Laingsburg, 25mm in both Struisbaai and Mossel Bay, and 32mm in Kirstenbosch. Only 3.8mm was measured in Oudtshoorn, although some farmers in the area had between 20 and 30mm.   Piet Kleyn, CEO of the Ostrich Business Chamber, said the rains had been welcome, but were so patchy and so low, they had done nothing to break the region's drought. "You can say the situation is almost the same. There were a few good thundershowers here and there, but what we need to break this drought is sustained rainfall." Ostrich farmers have lost an estimated R1bn and have had to lay off 15% to 16% of their workforce as the drought enters its fourth year. The size of the flock has declined by 20% since last season. READ: Karoo farmer turns to labourer as 5-year drought slashes his income Johan Uys from the Oudtshoorn Municipality said the bit of rain had nevertheless raised the level of the town's Raubenheimer supply dam from 35.5% to 37%. "We've got water for another seven months." The region is to get additional water from Blossoms Water Project, a 22km pipeline from boreholes in the Blossoms region, but the earliest this could yield a supply would be in November.   Heinrich Robertson from the West Coast District Municipality said while the region had received some rain over the last two days, it was not enough to break the drought. "We are still under water restrictions." The Voëlvlei Dam is 63% full and the Clanwilliam Dam 30.3% full. These fell to 15% and 7% last year. In the Overberg region south of the N2, rain was patchy, with 42mm measured in Bredasdorp, while farmers reported figures that ranged from 5mm to 30mm. ALSO READ: A fight for life and death: Ostrich farmers battle as drought cripples Karoo Beaufort West's municipal manager Kosie Haarhoff said they recorded 14mm over the weekend. "It's better than nothing and will help replenish the underground water that feeds the boreholes, but it is not going to break the drought." The town's supply dam is 10% full and 18 of the 40 boreholes on which Beaufort West depends for its main water supply, have dried up. The average level in Cape Town's supply dams on Tuesday was 52.6%, up from 52.2% on Monday. The level is likely to increase over the next few days with the run-off from the mountains in the catchment area. Capetonians are still within the 650 million litres a day target and last week used 605 million litres. WATCH: Durban beach buried in garbage after heavy rains Piles of plastic bottles and other debris accumulated on a Durban beach on Monday morning following heavy rain in KwaZulu-Natal. Watch. WATCH: Temperatures to increase after parts of SA experience heavy rain and snowfall South Africans in eastern regions of the country were forced to pack away their shorts and sandals because of icy temperatures. Watch the video above to see snowy scenes across South Africa. WATCH: How Do Clouds Make Rain? From evaporation to condensation, here's a fun experiment to explain to kids how clouds are formed and it eventually rains. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. WATCH: Weekend hail leaves parts of Pretoria covered in ice Severe weather conditions hit large parts of Gauteng this past weekend after the South African Weather Service (SAWS) issued a notice for severe thunderstorms across the province. WATCH: South African farmers have built the first floating solar park in Africa Western Cape farmers have built Africa's first commercial floating solar park – that now let's them tackle load shedding and drought. They say it's a better investment than a new orchard. WATCH: This race horse just sold for a cool R4 million This year's top seller at the Cape Premier Yearling Sale was an unnamed filly that sold for R4 million from the Klawervlei Stud farm located in Breede River outside Bonnievale, Western Cape. WATCH: A poor man can come to this sale... and buy a champion Former golfer and stud farm owner Gary Player says race horse ownership is more accessible than many may realise. We caught up with the legendary sportsman at the 2019 Cape Premier Yearling Sale in Cape Town. Watch. 'The fire was higher than the roof here'- Hermanus farmer "Camphill, you've got 30 minutes until that fire is on you." These were the chilling words that came through as a Hermanus farm community, housing 54 intellectually disabled patients, was forced to evacuate.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.