Ntwaagae Seleka Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi. (Mduduzi Ndzingi, Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Another video involving violent behaviour at an Ekurhuleni school has emerged. The video, which was posted by Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi on his Twitter account on Monday morning, shows two female pupils fighting at Edenvale High School. This follows the recent circulation of another video which shows a group of pupils attacking another at Crystal Park High School, in Benoni, also in Ekurhuleni. Lesufi was expected to visit Crystal Park High School on Monday and was due to address pupils at the school. He has vowed to take action against the perpetrators. WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. In the Crystal Park video, some pupils are seen dragging the victim by her school bag, which is strapped to her back, as she fights to stand up. Some girls in the crowd are heard cheering, while others scream: "Mshayeni! (Beat her up)". It is not known what caused the attack. The pupil is kicked and hit with open hands on her body while lying on the ground, trying to defend herself. "Another madness, this time at Edenvale High, Ekurhuleni #EndTheMadness" the MEC wrote on Twitter, in reaction to the latest video. READ: 2 pupils at Centurion school suspended after brutal fight In the latest video from Edenvale High School, a female pupil is seen standing near a group of fellow pupils when another pupil charges at her and slaps her. The pupil being attacked retaliates and fights back. Other pupils cheer in the background. The girls eventually let go of each other before the video ends.  WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg. WATCH: Grief, anger as Durban community mourns teenagers killed by taxi Grief-stricken Newlands East residents became enraged on Wednesday after a minibus taxi ran into four secondary school pupils in Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, killing three. SA's top matriculant missed half the school year due to a rare disease After missing almost six months of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker managed to nab the coveted spot of SA's best matriculant. WATCH: SA Human Rights Commission reacts to the Hoërskool Driehoek tragedy The SA Human Rights Commission will launch a probe into a walkway collapse at a high school in Vanderbijlpark, that killed four children last week. WATCH: Support for Sans Souci teacher following court appearance The teacher charged with the assault of a Sans Souci Girls High School pupil, as well as the teenager she slapped, made their first appearances in the Wynberg Magistrate's Court on Wednesday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.