Jenna Etheridge Muizenberg High School matric pupil Janet Ntozini (Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Pupils and teachers at Muizenberg High School in Cape Town are in mourning after matric pupil Janet Ntozini, 18, was murdered while trying to protect a vulnerable person in her community over the weekend. "Our information is that she tried to intervene when a community member was allegedly beating up a disabled boy," Jessica Shelver, spokesperson for provincial education MEC Debbie Schafer, said on Wednesday. Western Cape police confirmed that she was stabbed three times after an altercation with a man in Vrygrond. Captain FC van Wyk said she had been rushed to hospital, but died there as a result of her injuries. Officers arrested the 23-year-old suspect on Sunday evening and he appeared in the Muizenberg Magistrate's Court on Tuesday. Residents went on the rampage after the stabbing, with Van Wyk confirming a house in Vrygrond had been vandalised and cars were burnt in Doring Street. The owner of the house, who is not a suspect in the murder, declined to open a criminal case. 'Our hearts are broken' Ntozini had shown great promise as a student and soccer player, according to her principal and the Western Cape Education Department. Principal Leonie Jacobsen told News24 on Wednesday that the death was a tragedy and that they acknowledged Ntozini as a "hero". "Our hearts are broken... she was a success, a turnaround story in education. She was at risk, a girl who truly could have gone the other way and been a statistic. "Her values were fantastic. Her acute sense of community eventually made her interfere in something that left her vulnerable and at risk." Shelver said Ntozini had achieved excellent academic results last year and that provincial soccer scouts had recently seen her play. 'She was a tough cookie, but a real team player' Jacobsen said they had encouraged Ntozini to pursue her soccer career after school. "She was an excellent soccer player. She had Banyana Banyana potential. She was a tough cookie, but a real team player." At the school, distraught friends and teachers lit candles and placed flowers beneath posters, with the words "RIP Janet" and "For the hero in all of us". Counselling was being provided for her friends and others at the school who needed it. Shelver said: "She died as she lived – courageous and brave, standing up for those who were not able to stand up for themselves. She had a very bright future ahead of her and the school community is devastated by the loss of such a young, beautiful life." The school will hold a memorial for her on Wednesday and has asked everyone to wear pink, Ntozini's favourite colour. Her family would then travel to the Eastern Cape to bury her.  Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. WATCH: At least 31 houses destroyed in Overstrand wildfires; video shows devastation in Betty's Bay At least 31 houses have been completely destroyed and 28 partially damaged by wildfires on the coastal Overstrand region in the Western Cape. Man targeted in racist rant on Cape Town, South Africa, bus opens criminal case A man has opened a case of crimen injuria after becoming the target of a racist rant on a bus to central Cape Town on Monday morning. WATCH: MyCiTi employees' 'wildcat' strike continued on Tuesday A "wildcat" strike by MyCiTi employees appeared to enter its second day on Tuesday as the bus service announced disruptions on several routes around Cape Town. WATCH: Cape Town's karate kid raises tournament money through hard work and community support A pint-sized karate kid from Lansdowne in Cape Town has unleashed his inner entrepreneur, raising money to take part in a national karate tournament by selling atchar, dried fruit and sauces at a stall in Rylands. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. VIDEO: 'We pay R2 to use mall toilets' – Cape Town informal settlement residents demand basic servic Five Cape Town communities joined with social justice movements to march to the Cape Town Civic Centre on Thursday. 

The protesters expressed exasperation over the lack of basic services in informal settlements in the city. WATCH: Bakkie goes swimming while trying to pull boat out of the water in Cape Town A man who was pulling a boat out of the water at the Oceana Power Boat Club in Granger Bay, Cape Town, got more than he bargained for at the weekend when his vehicle also had to be towed out of the water. WATCH: Fire engulfs Lion's Head Families living in Sea Point, Cape Town evacuated their homes on Sunday evening as the flames that engulfed the lower slopes of Lion's Head near Quarry Hill were coming down on them. It's time to involve the entire security cluster - Blade Nzimande after latest Cape Town train fire Firefighters have arrived at Cape Town train station to battle yet another train-related blaze after thick, black smoke permeated the air above the station on Tuesday. WATCH: High speed N1 Cape Town crash leaves BMW driver critical Video of a BMW crashing into a barrier on the N1 in Cape Town and spinning out of control has gone viral online. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits. WATCH: Zille breaks ground on R3bn mixed-income residential project Western Cape Premier Helen Zille said the "pioneering" housing project expected at the site of the derelict old Conradie Hospital in Cape Town could "make or break" the current housing system. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. WATCH: 'Small meteor' lights up Cape night sky Social media was ablaze with talk about a meteor that lit up the Western Cape sky in loud, fiery fashion on Wednesday. 
One lucky farmer managed to capture the meteor on CCTV camera. WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg. WATCH: Three accused of murdering Mihalik appear in court The three men accused of Pete Mihalik's murder - Vuyile Maliti, Sinozokohle Biyela and Nkosinathi Khumalo - appear in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Friday 15 February 2019. WATCH: Zille's biggest achievements in her own words Outgoing Western Cape Premier Helen Zille spoke about her 10 year term on the side-lines of a rally to launch the Democratic Alliance's manifesto at the Bellville Velodrome on Sunday. WATCH:  Fire rages out of control near Hermanus Firefighters from the Overstrand Municipality have spent the last 24 hours fighting an out of control fire about 10km from Hermanus in the Western Cape. WATCH: Cellphone footage shows violent mob justice on Cape Town promenade On Sunday, the Eden on the bay promenade in Big bay, seemed no different than it usually does on a sunny weekend for the most part of the day. Then the end of the day saw the stretch of grass on the promenade turn into a small war zone. WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. WATCH: Protesters to Ramaphosa: Give us the money you give to the buffalo The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) and other trade unions took to the streets in Cape Town on Thursday to protest against police brutality and low wages. WATCH: Buses burned, windows shattered in CPUT violence Vandals destroyed two buses and damaged buildings at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology's Bellville campus in the early hours of Wednesday morning.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.