When she breaks out in song, her angelic voice fills every corner of the room and leaves her audience covered in goosebumps. Bianca Solomons is the fresh-faced 16-year-old behind the powerful voice. Her love for music – opera, specifically – is inexplicable, she says. "I started music because it’s a talent I have and there are many people in the world who have a talent they’re not aware of," Bianca tell us. "That is why I’m doing music – not for fame or to show off. But to show people what they can do with their talent." Equally as touching as her voice is the story of her upbringing. Bianca, who lives in Bellville in Cape Town’s northern suburbs with her adoptive mother, Ellen Fouché (56), was abandoned at birth.     On February 5, 2003 an unknown woman came knocking on Ellen’s door. In her arms she cradled a newborn. The petite woman, covered in dirt, asked for a glass of water and painkillers as she had a terrible headache. When Ellen asked about the baby, who was still partially covered in blood, the woman explained she’d just given birth to the little girl in a public bathroom in nearby Kraaifontein. According to the woman, a friend had helped her to a day hospital where nurses had attended to her and the baby before releasing them. "I was worried about her," Ellen admits. "She told me she doesn’t know what she’s going to do because she has no home." Ellen offered to accompany her and the baby to a welfare centre but the woman insisted she had to run an errand. She asked if the baby could stay with Ellen in the meanwhile; she’d return shortly. She never did. After three days Ellen took the baby to a welfare centre. A court ordered that the child stay with her until the matter could be investigated. Bianca’s biological mother was never found and Ellen eventually formally adopted her. A musical story... Bianca was a Grade 4 learner at Bellville-Noord primary school when her choir conductor, Mrs Denecker, noticed something special about the little girl’s voice and started using her in competitions. Six years later, Bianca’s gone on to achieve her provincial and national colours in singing. The teen says opera isn’t the only genre she enjoys. Her eyes light up when she speaks of a few of her favourite pop, gospel and Afrikaans songs. "But opera is my focus because it has a musical story in it," she quickly adds. And what a story she tells every time she starts singing. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  