 One of the most enduring allegations against Magashule is
that he ran a bona fide shakedown operation in the Free State. The former
premier allegedly made sure that businesspeople who got contracts from
provincial departments and municipalities paid their dues to him as soon as
they received money from the public purse. Several sources who once worked with
Magashule claimed that such dubious funds were intended not only for his own
pockets, but also for those of the ANC. The IgoFiles provide unique insight into how the former
premier tapped into the proceeds of the asbestos auditing contract to further his
own political agenda and to benefit his party. In what can only be described as
a kickback scheme, Mpambani funnelled money that came directly from the province's
coffers towards party-political projects. His orders to do so came from
Magashule's office. In November 2015, Magashule's newly appointed spokesperson
Tiisetso Makhele joined eighteen fellow Free State compatriots on a three-week jaunt
to Cuba. '[T]he ANC Free State Provincial Executive Committee, under the
visionary leadership of Comrade Ace Magashule, sent me and 18 other comrades on
a political course in the South American island of Cuba,' Makhele later wrote
in The Weekly. The group of travellers, which according to Makhele became known
as 'the Cuban 19', should have thanked South African taxpayers for their
lengthy holiday in the Caribbean. On 28 January 2016, shortly after their return to the Free
State, Moroadi Cholota once again emailed Mpambani. 'Good day. Kindly find the
below details as discussed telephonically,' she wrote, including the bank
details for Astra Travel, a travel agency in Bloemfontein. Her timing was
impeccable. Just forty minutes after she sent the email, the FSHS transferred R10
million into the Blackhead–Diamond Hill joint account. This was the sixth
payment for the asbestos audit. The fact that Magashule's personal assistant emailed
Mpambani during the exact time frame in which the FSHS paid yet another
instalment to Blackhead–Diamond Hill resonates with what I was told by several
of the former premier's erstwhile associates and allies. 'Ace kept tabs on all
the large and medium-sized payments made by municipalities and provincial departments.
He knew exactly when most companies were due to receive money from his
government, and he would then very quickly collect his share once the payment
had been made,' a former MEC in one of Magashule's earlier executive councils
told me. The following day, Cholota sent Mpambani an invoice for R250
000 from Astra Travel for the 'Cuba delegation'. It was for the group's
accommodation abroad. 'Kindly find the attached invoice as discussed. Hope you
will find it in order,' she wrote. In this instance, by following the money
trail it is possible to see exactly how Mpambani attended to this political
request with the proceeds of the asbestos auditing contract. Through a series of complex transactions, the businessman
moved the FSHS bounty around in a manner that has all the hallmarks of a
classic money-laundering operation. When the sixth instalment of R10 million landed in
Blackhead–Diamond Hill's account, Mpambani immediately transferred about R5
million to Blackhead Consulting. He also put R600 000 into his private RMB account.
A couple of days later, he paid over R4 million to 605 Consulting. As soon as
the R600 000 landed in the RMB account, Mpambani transferred R400 000 and R160
000 respectively to Diamond Hill. He marked these transfers as 'loans'. He then
immediately transferred these amounts from the Diamond Hill account to 605
Consulting, marking them as 'loan–Diamond Hill'. Minutes after the R400 000 'loan'
landed in 605 Consulting's account, Mpambani paid R250 000 to Astra Travel to
settle the bill for the Cuban 19. He marked the payment as 'Travel–Cuba'. And the 'loan' of R160 000? About two weeks before the FSHS
paid out the sixth instalment, Mpambani received an email from Kemi Akinbohun, a
lawyer from Welkom, with the banking details of a non-profit entity called
Evolution POT. 'Kindly note that we shall send you a formal acknowledgement of
the receipt of the donation when received,' Akinbohun wrote. Two weeks later, after Mpambani had channelled some of the
FSHS cash through Diamond Hill and into 605 Consulting's account, he paid R100
000 to Evolution POT, marking it as 'school fees donation'. According to its website,
Evolution POT is a foundation established by Mathabo Leeto. Its objectives
include 'capacity building and training', 'moral regeneration', 'healthy living
styles' and 'support [for] youth education'. Akinbohun confirmed the donation
and said Mpambani's money was used to buy school uniforms for needy children.
The donation had not been influenced by MEC Leeto, insisted Akinbohun. According to accommodation bookings in the IgoFiles,
Mpambani was in Bloemfontein when he made the first payment to Evolution POT and
settled the travel bill for the Cuban 19. By now, there was a clearly discernible pattern. No sooner
had the FSHS transferred money into the Blackhead–Diamond Hill account than Mpambani
would receive requests from Magashule's aides or people linked to politicians
like Leeto. He would then move his share of the money into his own company
accounts, from where he would make all manner of payments, including settling
the requests. Mpambani also started to withdraw ever-larger amounts of cash
before or during his trips to Bloemfontein. The IgoFiles, Magashule's diary and other records allowed me
to identify a sequence of events that show how Mpambani channelled even more of
the money from the asbestos auditing contract into political projects. On
Tuesday 19 January 2016, Magashule met with President Jacob Zuma at the latter's
Mahlamba Ndlopfu residence in Pretoria. That same day, ANC spokesperson in the
Free State Thabo Meeko tweeted: 'ANC Free State to convene the mother of all
marches in defence of President Zuma, on 06 Feb 2016. In Bloem. Details to
follow.' Zuma was in the middle of yet another political storm after
his shock appointment, and subsequent reversal, of Des van Rooyen as finance
minister a month before. His relationship with the Guptas was also keeping him
in the firing line and he needed all the support he could get. The march was
scheduled for the week after the FSHS made its sixth payment for the asbestos
audit, and Mpambani's money once again came in handy. On Wednesday 3 February, he withdrew half a million rand in
cash from the FNB branch in the Sandton City shopping mall. He then drove to
the Free State, swiping one of his bank cards at the Grasmere and Vaal toll plazas
before later buying petrol at the Engen 1-Stop on the N1 outside Bloemfontein. While we do not know for sure what the R500 000 was for, the
IgoFiles suggest that Mpambani met with someone about the planned Zuma march
that same day. The following day, he made three separate payments totalling
about R230 000 to three transport companies. He marked the payments as 'bus
shuttle services Igo-Cosatu', 'bus shuttle services WL Mangaung' and 'bus service
– rally' respectively. He also sent payment notifications to the three
transport companies. I spoke to an employee at one of the bus companies, and he
confirmed that they had been paid to drive members of the ANC Women's League
(WL) to the rally. This person would not disclose where the money had come
from. As it happens, MEC Leeto was treasurer of the ANC Women's League in the
Free State during this time. Mpambani would later also make at least one payment to Thabo
Meeko, albeit a relatively small one. In November 2016, Mpambani made an
eWallet payment of R2 000 to a cellphone number which a simple Google search
revealed to be Meeko's. The February march, meanwhile, was touted as a celebration
of the ANC's 104th birthday, but it turned out to be blatant propaganda in support
of the party's beleaguered president. A few thousand marchers, wearing mostly
yellow ANC T-shirts or green ANC Women's League uniforms, walked through
Bloemfontein's streets before gathering at the city's Dr Petrus Molemela
Stadium. A news broadcast of the event shows a huge 'Hands Off President Zuma'
banner and marchers carrying placards displaying the same message of support.
Later, then ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe and Magashule addressed the crowd, with
Mantashe claiming that reports about the Gupta family's links to top
politicians were exaggerated. 'If people have relations with the Guptas it's
their business, I don't have a relationship with them, I have no problem with
people who have a relation with them,' he said from the podium. Mpambani had clearly been on Magashule's mind during that
week. On the Tuesday before the rally, he received an invitation to the premier's
upcoming State of the Province Address. As had happened the previous year, it
appears that Mpambani drove down to Bloemfontein specifically for the event on
16 February. Data in the IgoFiles shows that he swiped 605 Consulting's bank
card at toll gates en route. The FSHS transferred the seventh instalment to
Blackhead–Diamond Hill on 28 April 2016. It amounted to exactly R15 million.
Mpambani transferred half of it to Sodi's Blackhead Consulting and the
remaining R7.5 million to 605 Consulting. From the latter account, Mpambani made
the usual payments for 'engineering services' and 'professional services'. Less
than two weeks later, only about R200 000 of the R7.5 million remained in the
605 Consulting account. In keeping with the pattern, Mpambani travelled to
Bloemfontein frequently after receiving the latest instalment. On Monday 9 May,
he withdrew R100 000 in cash from the FNB ATM around the corner from Free State
House. He almost certainly had contact with Magashule or someone close to him
that week, as evidenced by events. According to his diary, Magashule was at the
ANC's Bloemfontein offices on Friday 13 May to prepare for the party's
manifesto launch. That same day, Mpambani transferred R50 000 from the 605
Consulting account for 'bus shuttle service'. The ANC's manifesto launch for the upcoming local government
elections took place the following day. It was held in Botshabelo, near Bloemfontein,
with Zuma as the keynote speaker. Magashule also delivered a speech.
Considering the timing of the payment and the fact that Mpambani was in
Bloemfontein at the time, it is unlikely that the bus service would have been
for anything other than the manifesto launch. In late July 2016, with the local elections only days away,
Mpambani made his most direct financial contribution to the ruling party. He
funded this donation with the proceeds of the asbestos auditing contract in a clear
example of the ANC's habit of funding itself with money squeezed from state
coffers through dodgy contracts. The little scheme worked as follows: By 28
July, 605 Consulting still had a small amount of money left over from the
seventh FSHS instalment paid out in April. That day, Mpambani transferred R100 000 from the 605 Consulting
account to his FNB Private Wealth cheque account, marking it as 'salary'. Just
a few minutes later, he transferred this entire 'salary' from his Private
Wealth account to an unknown bank account, flagging it as 'party fundraising'. A subsequent SMS sending-fee notification stated that the
payment was for 'ANC Fundraising'. * This is an extract from Gangster State. Unravelling Ace Magashule's Web of Capture by Pieter-Louis Myburgh, published by Penguin Random House. 