Correspondent Illustration of torture supplied by Human Rights Watch. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) welcomed the Cabinet decision of February 28, to refer the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (OPCAT) to Parliament. "The Commission would like to commend the Deputy Minister of Justice and Constitutional Development, Honourable John Jeffery for his role and support in this regard," SAHRC spokesperson Gail Smith said in a statement. The OPCAT was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 2002 and came into force in 2006, the statement read. "South Africa signed OPCAT in September 2006; however, it is yet to ratify the protocol. The OPCAT is unique among international conventions and protocols in that it does not promote any new norm, instead, it strengthens national implementation of the United Nations Convention Against Torture (UNCAT)." READ: Racism still dominates SAHRC complaints According to the SAHRC, the OPCAT establishes international and domestic mechanisms for torture prevention through a system of regular visits to places of detention, in order to prevent torture and other cruel, inhuman, degrading treatment or punishment. States are obliged to establish a National Preventive Mechanism (NPM) to monitor places of deprivation of liberty on an announced or unannounced basis. "The SAHRC will be the coordinating body for the NPM in South Africa, in accordance with Article 17 of the OPCAT, which allows for the establishment of institutions to serve as the NPM. "The OPCAT is not prescriptive on the structure for the NPM; however, it has been noted that South Africa has a number of existing oversight bodies which includes the Judicial Inspectorate for Correctional Services (JICS), Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) and other such bodies. Media Statement: SAHRC welcomes the cabinet decision on the ratification of OPCAT https://t.co/qIn6fuOkJb  "As such, the Commission will play a coordinating function for these and other involved institutions. The NPM is established to prevent torture and protect the rights of those deprived of their liberty through regular visits to places of detention. "The NPM is required to consult regularly with the Subcomittee on the Prevention of Torture; make recommendations to applicable authorities to strengthen the prevention of torture; and to comment on proposed legislation or polices regarding places of detention." Through the NPM’s systemic analysis before, during and after monitoring visits (as well as follow-up visits), the NPM is able to identify trends, improvement or deterioration of the conditions of detention and provide recommendations to reinforce/implement protective measures as underscored by international and domestic human rights law. This creates credibility regionally and internationally as well as legitimacy in respect of independence – envisaged in respect of detained persons. The commission notes that Parliament will ratify OPCAT as per the approved Cabinet memo before Parliament rises in April 2019, the SAHRC said.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter "A violation of the rights of these women": NRL player charged over sex tape NSW Police Superintendent Brett McFadden speaks to reporters in Penrith after a man was charged with two recording and disseminating images without consent. "There's no doubt that what's taken place is a serious breach of trust, a violation of the... EXPLAINER: Julian Burnside to run against Frydenberg Veteran barrister and human rights advocate Julian Burnside will run as a Greens candidate against Treasurer Josh Frydenberg at the federal election. Feel the Burnside - prominent QC to take on Josh Frydenberg at the federal election Prominent human rights QC Julian Burnside announces that he'll be standing in the federal election in the seat of Kooyong, taking on the former environment minister Josh Frydenberg. Burnside says that climate change and the fair treatment of asylu... Indians form human chain for Pakistan peace In India's capital New Delhi, protesters form a human chain and hold up signs calling for peace with Pakistan, after a sharp rise in tensions between the two nuclear-powered neighbours over disputed Kashmir. Huawei CFO suing Canada over December arrest Huawei Chief Financial Officer Meng Wanzhou is suing the Canadian government, its border agency, and federal police. She alleges she was detained, searched, and interrogated for three hours in violation of her constitutional rights. Justin Timberlake 'cherishes every moment' with Jessica Biel Justin Timberlake shared a sweet message for his wife Jessica Biel to mark her 37th birthday, admitting he "cherishes every moment" with her and feels so lucky to be married to the "most wonderful human". Celebs show support for equal rights at London's #March4Women Annie Lennox was one of a host of celebrities joining the #March4Women in London. AP Top Stories March 3 Here are the top stories for Sunday, March 3rd: Nadler to make case for Trump obstruction; Democratic hopefuls in Selma; SpaceX human capsule docks with ISS; Ancient tomb opens in Egypt. Donald Trump has 'inadvertently' helped women's rights, says Annie Lennox US President Donald Trump has a powerful role in feminism, according to singer and activist Annie Lennox. She said Mr Trump has been "inadvertently helpful" in drumming up support for women's rights through his "alarming" rhetoric. Celebs show support for equal rights at London's #March4Women Annie Lennox was one of a host of celebrities joining the #March4Women in London. Helena Bonham Carter and David Tennant also showed their support for the equal rights movement. SpaceX crew Dragon hatch opened, ISS astronauts enter After docking successfully at the International Space Station, more than 248 miles above the Earth's surface, astronauts enter the SpaceX Dragon Capsule. SpaceX Dragon capsule docks successfully at International Space Station A SpaceX unmanned crew capsule successfully docked at the International Space Station on Sunday (March 3) in a key milestone for Elon Musk's space company and NASA's long-delayed goal to resume human spaceflight from U.S. soil later this year. France SpaceX launches unmanned U.S. space capsule to space station A SpaceX rocket with a newly designed unmanned crew capsule blasted off on Saturday (March 2) for the International Space Station, in a key milestone for Elon Musk's space company and NASA's long-delayed goal to resume human spaceflight from U.S. soil later this year. Francesca Lynagh reports Would you pay €200,000 to burn a statue of the king of Spain? Two Spanish artists are selling a statue of the king of Spain but you can only keep it for a year and then you have to burn it. Rwanda - Golden monkeys under threat Golden monkeys are an endangered species. The animals' habitat is also being encroached on by a growing human population who go into the Volcanoes National Park to gather wood. An NGO aims to protect the forest - with energy-efficient stoves. Contractor arrested over $40m NAB fraud NSW Police Acting Assistant Commissioner Stuart Smith speaks to reporters in Sydney following the arrest of a woman over an alleged fraud against NAB totalling $40 million over five years. Police arrested Human Group director Helen Rosamond, 43, a... SpaceX readies 1st spacecraft designed for crew SpaceX rockets into the realm of human spaceflight with the debut of a new capsule designed for astronauts. Is 'strongman' politics chipping away at women's rights? A recently published letter has sparked a debate over whether "macho" politics is hindering women's rights. Robots get record number of jobs in U.S. U.S. companies installed more robots last year than ever before, as cheaper and more flexible machines put them within reach of businesses of all sizes and in more corners of the economy beyond their traditional foothold in car plants. UN accuses Israel of 'serious violations of Human rights' Members of the UN Commission of investigation says there is evidence Israel committed 'serious violations of Human rights' in responding to last year's protests in Gaza, as snipers targeted people clearly identifiable as children, health workers a... Trump doesn't think Kim part of Warmbier's death US President Donald Trump said on Thursday he doesn't think North Korean leader Kim Jong Un was involved in the mistreatment of American college student Otto Warmbier, who died after being detained in the isolated country. Immigration Minister on latest statistics; Channel crossings Caroline Nokes responds to migration figures and illegal Channel crossings. UN probe accuses Israel of 'serious violations of human rights' A UN probe says there is evidence that Israel committed crimes against humanity in responding to 2018 protests in Gaza, as snipers targeted people clearly identifiable as children, health workers and journalists. Watch: Kim Jong Un answers questions from foreign journalists for first time If I wasn't ready to disarm, I wouldn't be here, says Kim Jong Un Amber Davies feared Love Island would ruin her future career success Amber Davies "feared" having sex on 'Love Island' would have a "negative impact" on her career outside of the villa. Iran executed 273 people in 2018, says human rights group Despite being at a 10-year low, Iran still executes the second-highest number of people in the world, according to a human rights group. Derry Girls join Northern Ireland abortion rights protesters in Westminster The stars of Derry Girls joined a Northern Ireland abortion rights protest in London. Twenty-eight women marched across Westminster Bridge with suitcases to the Northern Ireland office to deliver a petition to Karen Bradley. Derry Girls join Northern Ireland abortion rights protesters in Westminster The stars of Derry Girls joined a Northern Ireland abortion rights protest in London. Twenty-eight women marched across Westminster Bridge with suitcases to the Northern Ireland office to deliver a petition to Karen Bradley. PKK sympathisers vandalise Council of Europe headquarters Dozens of PKK sympathisers have been arrested after vandalising the Council of Europe building in France's Strasbourg and scuffling with French police.
#PKK #France #Strasbourg Afghan trailblazer describes confronting Taliban Fawzia Koofi was hesitant to face the Taliban militants who jailed her husband, threatened to stone her for wearing nail polish, and -- when she became a high-profile MP and women's rights champion -- tried to assassinate her. But the politician a... WATCH: 'Maybe it is real' – CRL Rights Commission on Pastor Lukau The CRL Rights Commission on Tuesday said it will be investigating the allegations that a dead man was resurrected at the Alleluia International Ministries church. Costa Rica seeks to tackle violence with stricter gun control Costa Ricans defend the use of firearms as the government hopes to put in place a legal reform, which aims to tackle gun control in a country that suffered an alarming murder increase between 2012 and 2017. Justin Theroux steps up nasty legal battle with New York neighbour Justin Theroux's legal dispute with his New York neighbour has apparently become an all-out war after the actor suggested his rival's wife had been subjected to domestic abuse. Judge gives green light to Trump ban on gun 'bump stocks' A federal judge has given the Trump administration the go-ahead to ban 'bump stocks,' rapid-fire gun attachments used in the deadliest mass shooting in modern U.S. history, in a defeat for firearms rights advocates. Dutch fishers fear stormy seas ahead after Brexit The prospect of losing British fishing rights after Brexit has thrown a dark cloud over the future of Dutch trawler captains such as Cor Vonk and his family, as he sails into uncertain waters between the port of Den Helder and the Dutch North Sea ... AP Top Stories February 25 Here are the top stories for Monday, February 25th: Trump heads to Vietnam for North Korea summit; R. Kelly pleads not guilty in sex abuse case; Police detail charges against New England Patriots owner; Academy Awards sees ratings boost. Donald Tusk urges 'common commitment' to upholding human rights at summit in Egypt In the first event of its kind, Donald Tusk addressed the importance of "common commitment" in addressing global human rights issues at the EU-Arab League summit in Egypt. Director Alfonso Cuaron 'proud of the impact' of film 'Roma' Mexican director Alfonso Cuaron says his film "Roma" and its many nominations have "opened up a whole conversation that was so necessary" about the rights of domestic workers in both the US and Mexico, as he arrives on the red carpet ahead of the ... Venezuela: Maduro breaks relations with Colombia; two dead in clashes at the Brazilian border Venezuela's Maduro breaks relations with Colombia; expels Colombian embassy employees Russian propganda train shows off spoils of Syrian war Five hundred exhibits of captured armoured vehicles, artillery, firearms and improvised explosive devices are on show. Sister of man executed in Egypt speaks out Rights groups say the executions of nine people in Egypt this month may have been unfair amid allegations that torture was used to obtain confessions. #Egypt #execution #Sisi Doubting is wrong before jumping into a river Young man has second thoughts before jumping from a rock into the water. What If Antibiotics Stopped Working? Today, society is more medically advanced than ever before. And antibiotics are a major reason for why we stay healthy for longer. But, more and more scientists are warning that a 'Post-Antibiotic Apocalypse' is looming - where antibiotics no longer work to tackle deadly illness and disease. So, what if the worst case scenario really does happen? What if harmful germs and bacteria become immune to antibiotics? How long can the human race survive without our vital line of biological defence? Egypt executes nine men Egypt executed 9 political prisoners today after controversially finding them guilty for the murder of Egypt's former prosecutor general. International human rights organizations have condemned the execution. #egypt #muslimbrotherhood #morsi PM: Never thought Labour would be accused of anti-Semitism Theresa May says she never thought Labour was accused of anti-Semitism. Man arrested for attacking Sikh clerk thinking he was Muslim A man identified as John Crain punched and threw hot coffee on a Sikh clerk in California because he thought he was Muslim. Crain has been arrested and charged with a hate crime. #hatecrime #Muslim #Sikh Quick Guide to Israel Head on down to Israel and be challenged, excited and surprised by this fascinating country in the ancient centre of human civilisation. Here's what you should know and what you can expect to enjoy (Photos: iStock) Top EU official praises fired Romanian corruption prosecutor, says fight must continue The vice president of the European Commission, Frans Timmermans, told Euronews on Saturday that there could be "no relenting of the fight against corruption in Romania". Skin Deeper: Exfoliation - Episode 2 In this three-part mini series, we tag along with Content Creator and host Letitia Kiu as she dives deeper into some of today's hottest skin care fads! Skin Deeper: Bath Bombs - Episode 3 In this three-part mini series, we tag along with Content Creator and host Letitia Kiu as she dives deeper into some of today's hottest skin care fads!   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.