Kamva Somdyala Former SABC chief operations officer Hlaudi Motsoeneng says he would "gladly" testify at the judicial commission of inquiry looking into allegations of state capture, should he be called to do so. The former public broadcaster boss-turned-politician was addressing members of his political party, the African Content Movement (ACM), in Soweto on Sunday. "Should I be called to go testify at the Zondo commission, I will gladly do [so]," Motsoeneng said at the gathering. Motsoeneng said many ANC leaders had "tried to capture" him while he was at the SABC, IOL reported on Monday. SATIRE: "This wonderful person called Hlaudi" | Hlaudi Motsoeneng rap remix "I want to applaud people who recognise this wonderful person called Hlaudi. Because when I came here there was no SABC" - Hlaudi Motsoeneng, 2016 "If I go to the commission, some of the ANC people are going to be in trouble because I was not captured by them – they tried to capture me, but I capture myself unfortunately," Motsoeneng was quoted as saying. Last year, City Press reported that Petrus Venter, an auditor employed by a company contracted to controversial services management company African Global Operations (AGO), formerly Bosasa, revealed in a sworn affidavit that the company's chief executive, Gavin Watson, "approached me to assist him to pay the legal costs of Mr Hlaudi Motsoeneng". 'ACM will take the North West' AGO was the focus of the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture for several weeks earlier this year, when its operations, network of patronage and links to high-ranking government officials and civil servants were laid bare by former chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi and other past and present employees. Motsoeneng racked up a bill of around R1.1m in legal fees in his failed defence of a disciplinary hearing in 2017. At the same time, Motsoeneng told the gathering that his ACM would take the North West when South Africans head to the polls on May 8. "ACM will take North West province because a professor who speaks only good English without solutions was appointed as premier. The province is currently leaderless," he added. Motsoeneng launched the party in December. At the time, he said the ACM would make sure that a constitutional democracy with a three-tier system of government and an independent judiciary benefits all citizens equally, reducing inequality.  WATCH: 'We are not fighting the ANC' - Mahumapelo ahead of court appearance Former ANC North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo addresses supporters before fighting the NEC decision to disband his PEC at the South Gauteng High Court. WATCH: Freedom Park residents demonstrate outside Luthuli House Luthuli House in the Johannesburg CBD should brace itself for a "sleepover" if the Gauteng government doesn't address issues raised by landless residents of Freedom Park in the south of the city. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. WATCH: Damage to 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard a criminal act – DA The DA has called the damage inflicted on its newly unveiled 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, a 'criminal act'. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. Land expropriation: EFF says it's race issue; DA questions process Court action to prevent Parliament from amending the Constitution to allow for expropriation without compensation seems imminent as parties opposing an amendment to section 25 all sang from the same hymn sheet. WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. WATCH: EFF demonstrates for second day at #StateCaptureInquiry Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday continued with his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, as the EFF demonstrated outside for a second day in a row. WATCH: Bosasa and #StateCapture | Here's what you need to know... Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Premier David Makhura receives letter of demand from coloured communities Residents in Gauteng communities affected by gang violence marched in Johannesburg on Friday to hand over a letter of demand to Gauteng Premier David Makhura. Inside the ANC's Bosasa election war room Bosasa sponsored these war rooms for the past three elections for the ANC, at an estimated cost of R2-million per election. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.