Kyle Cowan Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson, who was recorded bragging about how he planned to lobby former president Zuma (centre) over the appointment of an NDPP is pictured here showing Zuma something on his phone as Bosasa director Jackie Leyds looks on. This was snapped during Zuma’s visit to Bosasa head office in Krugersdorp a day before his birthday in April 2015. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Lawyers representing corruption accused company Bosasa, which has entered into a court battle to have its own decision to enter into voluntary liquidation set aside, claim it is being hijacked by liquidators. The Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg heard arguments in the matter on Wednesday and Judge Joolan Ameer has reserved judgement. Bosasa, represented by advocate Mike Hellens, SC, argued that special resolutions the company's board of directors took on February 12, to place the company under voluntary liquidation, should be declared null and void. Bosasa changed its name to African Global Operations (AGO) in 2017. WATCH: Bosasa liquidator takes charge of documents, servers Bosasa liquidator Cloete Murray on Friday took charge at the company's headquarters in Krugersdorp following their voluntary liquidation. To try and convince Ameer that the application Bosasa chairman Joe Gumede filed on March 4 was indeed urgent, Hellens argued that provisional liquidators Cloete Murray and Ralph Lutchman had "hijacked" the company. Decisions the liquidators took, such as the firing of certain staff, including Lindsay Watson, kicking directors out of the offices and moving ahead with the search for potential buyers for certain assets, were having an adverse effect on the company and its staff, he submitted, and the court needed to grant a declaratory order to set aside the special resolutions. The resolutions taken, Hellens argued, were null and void because the shareholders had not been properly notified of the meeting and the incorrect section of the Companies Act of 1973, which has since been repealed, was used to enforce the resolutions. It then follows, Hellens submitted, that the entire process and appointment of the liquidators was in effect irregular. "We would argue to anyone...that these companies are not in liquidation," Hellens said. "Our starting point is that if there was no resolution, there was no appointment [of the liquidators]. There is no valid resolution triggering any provision of the Companies Act," he added. Ameer questioned Hellens about how he could claim there was no special resolution meeting as set out in the Companies Act, when all six of the directors of Bosasa/AGO were present when they signed the resolution documents, which set out that a proper meeting was indeed held and that the directors waive the notice period requirement. "These are seasoned directors of a financially substantial company," the judge pointed out. Hellens argued that the same directors, which included Bosasa chairman Joe Gumede and CEO Gavin Watson, only became aware of the irregularity in the process they followed in commencing the liquidation proceedings after the fact. They simply signed documents presented to them by an attorney. Advocate Werner Luderitz, acting for Murray and his colleagues, argued that the application should be dismissed on the basis that the liquidators were not given appropriate time to draft responding papers, but advanced some form of argument against Hellens' submissions. Luderitz submitted that the 1973 version of the act was still enforceable in terms of winding up an insolvent company. Nowhere in their papers, he argued, did Bosasa provide proof the companies were still solvent. Luderitz also pointed out that Bosasa's issues were an after-the-fact attempt to find technical loopholes because the liquidator they wanted to be appointed, was not initially appointed. This is in reference to Lutchman. Luderitz told the court that Gumede had been instrumental in going to various employees and creditors to ask them to sign requisitions that supported the appointment of Lutchman. "It was always intended by the applicant [Bosasa/AGO] that this company should be placed under liquidation," Luderitz said. "Where the plan backfired was when the person they had in mind to be appointed was not left alone to take charge." Luderitz added that Gumede and Hellens had not explained where the sudden urge to relook the resolutions came from. "Mr Murray takes charge, and does his work as he is required. "Then miraculously there is this urgent need to find some technical issue with the resolutions...that is the reason why we are here. The plan didn't work out," Luderitz said. When Bosasa communicated the decision it took to be placed under voluntary liquidation in February, the company stated in a press release that the reason for this was the closure of its banking facilities by FNB and then ABSA bank. The company was unable to find alternative banking accounts – a situation Murray described in his affidavit as a "commercial death sentence". Hellens did not argue this point, but maintained that the companies were solvent for reasons set out in Gumede's founding affidavit. This affidavit completely ignores the fact that the main sources of revenue for Bosasa/AGO, being two contracts with the Department of Correctional Services, have been cancelled. It is not clear when Ameer will give judgment. PODCAST: ANC and the polls – are the party's leaders even bothered with the upcoming elections? This week on POLOTIKI, yet another ANC leader found himself in the middle of sexual assault claims, EFF leader Julius Malema takes the land question to Newcastle and we peel off another layer of the relationship between the ruling party and Bosasa. PODCAST: The depressing budget, Gavin Watson in action... and Eskom AUDIO: This week on POLOTIKI, we had the budget speech and, yes, it was depressing. Video emerged of Bosasa boss Gavin Watson belittling staff, and more explosive testimony at the commission of inquiry into state capture with the spotlight on Eskom. Inside the ANC's Bosasa election war room Bosasa sponsored these war rooms for the past three elections for the ANC, at an estimated cost of R2-million per election. WATCH: SARS swoops on Bosasa A team of South African Revenue Service officials arrived at Bosasa's head office shortly after noon on Friday to execute a search and seizure warrant. WATCH: Bosasa staff locked out by liquidators Bosasa staff locked out by liquidators WATCH: Gavin Watson belittles Bosasa staff, talks of his tender 'networks' Gavin Watson,, CEO of Bosasa, tackles staff over mistakes in their work submitting tenders. He mentions one contract worth R800-million which was nearly lost due to such a mistake. The video was taken during a Bosasa 'Imbizo', at Silverstar Casino. ANALYSIS: In a way this is the end of Bosasa, says Adriaan Basson News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and Opinions Editor Alet Janse van Rensburg unpack the latest developments in the Bosasa scandal, after the company announced it was under voluntary liquidation. Watch. WATCH: Striking Bosasa workers didn't know about liquidation Workers employed by facilities management company Bosasa, now known as African Global Operations, staged a demonstration outside its Mogale City head office on Monday - minutes after the company announced its voluntary liquidation. Whistleblowers should still come forward says Hawks after Bosasa arrests ormer Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi, former correctional services CFO Patrick Gillingham, and Bosasa official Andries van Tonder, on Wednesday briefly appeared in the dock at the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court. WATCH: Agrizzi, van Tonder and Gillingham appear in dock The Hawks on Wednesday arrested six suspects on allegations of corruption, money laundering and fraud relating to Bosasa. A warrant of arrest has been issued for a seventh suspect. WATCH: 'Ja boetie...and R900k next week' – Zondo inquiry hears from Bosasa bag man Yet more explosive testimony before the Zondo Commission of inquiry into state capture on Tuesday has revealed the identity of a man who delivered cash to Bosasa, which was in turn used to pay bribes to government officials and ministers. 'I will kill you' - Bosasa operative to journalist News24 editor-in-chief Adriaan Basson told the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture that a public relations executive paid by Bosasa said she would "kill" him if he told anyone about a threatening phone call she had made to him. PODCAST: Zuma's nine lost years? Ramaphosa shouldn't forget — he was there AUDIO: 2019 is off to a flying start, from Bosasa and the endless inquiries to Solly Msimanga stepping down as Tshwane mayor and electioneering getting into full swing.

This week on POLOTIKI, we discuss former president Jacob Zuma's legacy. LISTEN: 'That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. LISTEN: That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. LISTEN: Bosasa bosses Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma [WITH SUBTITLES] In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. WATCH: 'Give me a tender' - sings satirical 'Elvis' on Bosasa scandal The much-talked about Bosasa scandal has gripped South Africa over the past week since former chief-operating officer Angelo Agrizzi blew the whistle on bribery and corruption. LISTEN: Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. WATCH: Agrizzi details unfair advantage given to Bosasa to secure 'one of the biggest' tenders Former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi is on the stand for the fifth day at the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.