Sesona Ngqakamba EFF MP Nazier Paulsen, accused of theft, will appear in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Monday. Paulsen is accused of alleged theft of a laptop while serving in the Western Cape legislature. On February 15, Paulsen's case was postponed to allow him to make representations to the Director of Public Prosecutions. He has described the case as "complete rubbish". WATCH: EFF MP slaps security official at Parliament The Economic Freedom Fighters were caught in yet another scuffle at Parliament on Thursday, when one of their MPs assaulted a security official. READ: 'It's complete rubbish' - EFF MP in court on laptop theft charge He said that he did not return the laptop when he left the legislature as he was travelling, and wanted to remove personal data that may have been in the computer. He described the charges on him as a political move against him. "I have every confidence in the justice system," said Paulsen. Paulsen was elected to the provincial legislature in May 2014 as a sole EFF MP and left in May 2015, after swapping with the party's Western Cape leader, Bernard Joseph. He then moved to the National Assembly. WATCH: High speed N1 Cape Town crash leaves BMW driver critical Video of a BMW crashing into a barrier on the N1 in Cape Town and spinning out of control has gone viral online. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits. WATCH: A poor man can come to this sale... and buy a champion Former golfer and stud farm owner Gary Player says race horse ownership is more accessible than many may realise. We caught up with the legendary sportsman at the 2019 Cape Premier Yearling Sale in Cape Town. Watch. WATCH: 'VBS looters, pay back the money' - DA, EFF in war of words President Cyril Ramaphosa's last oral reply for the year came to an abrupt halt when the DA and EFF exchanged insults in Parliament. Watch. WATCH: 'A fairy-tale day' as homeless couple exchanges wedding vows A dream came true for Llewellyn Jenniker and Cecilia Jenniker on Tuesday when the homeless couple, who've been living together on the streets for decades, finally tied the knot. The Street Art Galleries of Cape Town Rather than an act of vandalism, many see graffiti art as a form of visual poetry engaging with the people of the city. This is your guide to exploring the open-air galleries of the Mother City in South Africa. WATCH: Three accused of murdering Mihalik appear in court The three men accused of Pete Mihalik's murder - Vuyile Maliti, Sinozokohle Biyela and Nkosinathi Khumalo - appear in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Friday 15 February 2019. WATCH: The Sasol Solar Challenge Sasol Solar Challenge 2018 took place from the 22nd to the 30th of September. FLAMINGO CHICKS rescued from perilously low water levels in South Africa Some 300 Lesser flamingo baby chicks have been rescued and taken into the care of the SANCCOB conservation centre in Cape Town.  According to a veterinarian in charge of feeding the baby flamingos, David Roberts, the centre received information "t... WATCH: Forensic teams comb crime scene after Mihalik shooting A police officer calls for assistance moments after criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik was shot dead in his car in Green Point, Cape Town. WATCH: Cape Town matrics beam after receiving IEB marks The young men and women exiting Reddam House Atlantic Seaboard in Cape Town on Thursday couldn't stop smiling when they saw that their hard work had paid off for the IEB national senior certificate exams. VIDEO: New footage shows devastation after Cape Town N1 high speed crash New footage of the crashed BMW on the N1 in Cape Town has emerged on social media, this time showing the aftermath of the incident. Ed Sheeran has a special message for his Cape Town fans Ed Sheeran has announced a second and final show at Cape Town Stadium on Thursday, 28 March 2019. The Wonder of Rwanda Kigali is joining the ranks of start-up cities in Africa alongside Lagos, Nairobi and Cape Town. A new start-up center has just opened there. 'Let all land belong to the state' The radical EFF opposition party has called for expropriation of land without compensation to redress the imbalance in land distribution in South Africa. WATCH: Oh beer! Crates of alcohol crash out of beer truck in Cape Town It was unhappy hour for a truck driver who lost a huge load of beer after attempting to turn his vehicle in South Africa on Friday. WATCH: Crowd brutally attacks man armed with paintball gun On Saturday a crowd attacked a man in Seapoint in Cape Town. WATCH: 'We have nothing' - Vredenburg residents demand better service delivery On Tuesday, residents of Vredenburg in the Western Cape – who have had enough of living in what they described as a "dump" – took to the streets with sjamboks, sticks and knobkieries to demand better service delivery. S.Africa's EFF party supporters arrive ahead of Manifesto launch Supporters of South Africa's far-left Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) arrive at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve, Pretoria, ahead of the party's manifesto launch. A brief, incomplete history of strange Canadian industrial thefts Police are baffled after Newfoundland thieves made off with about 30,000 litres of unbottled iceberg water worth as much as $12,000. The unusual bounty, which was to be used to make vodka, was being stored in a warehouse in Port Union, N.L. Here i... WATCH: EFF demonstrates for second day at #StateCaptureInquiry Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday continued with his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, as the EFF demonstrated outside for a second day in a row. WATCH: Crash, booze, bang in Cape Town as nearly 12 000 litres of alcohol go down the drain City of Cape Town law enforcement officers popped open more than 16 000 liquor cans and bottles on Thursday as the City prepares for the upcoming festive season. WATCH: Shark spotters: proactive initiative going swimmingly Naveron Lesch is on the lookout for the ocean's most dominant predator, one fully-trained member of a team of 30 Shark Spotters, a proactive early warning shark safety service operating on eight of Cape Town's beaches. WATCH: Holy Cross primary in Cape Town on fire Firefighters were called out to Holy Cross RC Primary School in the Cape Town CBD after plumes of smoke were seen emanating from the premises. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. WATCH: 'Small meteor' lights up Cape night sky Social media was ablaze with talk about a meteor that lit up the Western Cape sky in loud, fiery fashion on Wednesday. 
One lucky farmer managed to capture the meteor on CCTV camera. WATCH:  Fire rages out of control near Hermanus Firefighters from the Overstrand Municipality have spent the last 24 hours fighting an out of control fire about 10km from Hermanus in the Western Cape. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. Boulders Beach - Home of the African Penguin It is one of the world's most Instagrammed beaches. It is nature at its most pristine. And you can even swim with penguins. WATCH: Cellphone footage shows violent mob justice on Cape Town promenade On Sunday, the Eden on the bay promenade in Big bay, seemed no different than it usually does on a sunny weekend for the most part of the day. Then the end of the day saw the stretch of grass on the promenade turn into a small war zone. WATCH: Buses burned, windows shattered in CPUT violence Vandals destroyed two buses and damaged buildings at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology's Bellville campus in the early hours of Wednesday morning. Miley Cyrus is in Cape Town, South Africa Miley Cyrus was spotted shopping in Cape Town, South Africa. WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg. Man targeted in racist rant on Cape Town, South Africa, bus opens criminal case A man has opened a case of crimen injuria after becoming the target of a racist rant on a bus to central Cape Town on Monday morning. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. WATCH: MyCiTi employees' 'wildcat' strike continued on Tuesday A "wildcat" strike by MyCiTi employees appeared to enter its second day on Tuesday as the bus service announced disruptions on several routes around Cape Town. Why Cape Town is turning off its taps South Africa's second largest city is in the midst of a severe drought. WATCH: Cape Town's karate kid raises tournament money through hard work and community support A pint-sized karate kid from Lansdowne in Cape Town has unleashed his inner entrepreneur, raising money to take part in a national karate tournament by selling atchar, dried fruit and sauces at a stall in Rylands. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. VIDEO: 'We pay R2 to use mall toilets' – Cape Town informal settlement residents demand basic servic Five Cape Town communities joined with social justice movements to march to the Cape Town Civic Centre on Thursday. 

The protesters expressed exasperation over the lack of basic services in informal settlements in the city. WATCH Hundreds of flamingo chicks admitted to SANCCOB for life-saving rehabilitation Over 2 000 abandoned and distressed flamingo chicks were jetted all over South Africa this week as part of a series of mercy flights from Kimberley after their habitat came under threat due to water problems. WATCH: Bakkie goes swimming while trying to pull boat out of the water in Cape Town A man who was pulling a boat out of the water at the Oceana Power Boat Club in Granger Bay, Cape Town, got more than he bargained for at the weekend when his vehicle also had to be towed out of the water. WATCH: Fire engulfs Lion's Head Families living in Sea Point, Cape Town evacuated their homes on Sunday evening as the flames that engulfed the lower slopes of Lion's Head near Quarry Hill were coming down on them. WATCH: EFF supporters storm Vodacom stores Self-declared members and supporters of the EFF, many in EFF T-shirts, attacked at least two Vodacom stores over the weekend. Going drag racing with a politician Watch as City of Cape Town's mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith answers questions while sitting passenger at a legal racing event. WATCH: Zille breaks ground on R3bn mixed-income residential project Western Cape Premier Helen Zille said the "pioneering" housing project expected at the site of the derelict old Conradie Hospital in Cape Town could "make or break" the current housing system.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.