Ethan Van Diemen Dr Ian Venter has appeared in court. (Supplied, WMACA Facebook page) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Non-profit organisation Women and Men Against Child Abuse is appalled by the "inappropriately short sentence" of just three years handed down to a George dentist for a sexual assault of a minor. Dr Ian Venter, a 46-year old dentist from George, was sentenced to three years imprisonment this week for "unlawfully and intentionally" violating a 13-year-old boy in 2015 by asking him to touch his genitals. "As an organisation advocating for children's rights [we] really believe that child sexual abuse cases should warrant much harsher sentences. "The Children's Act clearly states that children have a right to safety and should [be] allowed to live free from violence and abuse," WMACA  said in a statement on Thursday. During the reading of sentencing in the George Circuit High Court, Magistrate Francis Makamandela felt the court needed to keep a fair balance and consider all the children concerned, both the victims and Venter’s own children. Also read: Bryanston High School coach guilty of sexual harassment, dismissed immediately Additionally, his particulars are to be included in the National Register for Sex Offenders and he has been found to be unsuitable to work with children. An application for leave to appeal was dismissed. The outrage shown in response to the sentencing is due, in no small part, to this being Venter's second sentencing for a sexual offence against a minor. In November 2014, he was found guilty of a sexual offence against a 15-year-old boy and spent a term of four years under correctional supervision. The second sexual assault was committed just five months after his initial conviction. "Given that this was his second offence, we believe a much longer jail term would have been the only fitting punishment," WMACA added. Western Cape National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila noted that "... the accused was previously convicted in another matter and one of the suspended conditions was that he is not allowed to treat children in his practice. He breached that condition. We are busy pursuing that and we will bring it to court soon."  Where is Kevin Spacey? It has been exactly one year and eleven days since Kevin Spacey was first accused of making sexual harassment. 'That's hogwash!'- Pule Mabe on accusations of intimate relationship with former PA ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe, who is currently on leave from that role pending the outcome of the inquiry of sexual harassment claims, strongly denied claims that he and his former assistant had an intimate relationship of sorts in the past. Allegations of abuse at SA consulate in Munich after video shows employee attempting suicide Ill-treatment of staff at the South African Consulate in Munich, Germany has come under the spotlight after a video emerged of a woman trying to take her own life on the premises. WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.