Melanie Gosling, Correspondent Swedish teen climate activist leads rally in Germany Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg who has sparked school strikes worldwide against global warming joins thousands of students in Hamburg, urging them to stay angry and fight for change. Ruby Sampson (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories There is a new movement in South Africa led by "climate kids" who will join a global school strike on March 15 to call for climate action from governments who they say are "stealing our future". An estimated 2 000 pupils will gather outside Parliament in Cape Town and more at the Union Buildings in Pretoria as part of the Global Strike for Climate. READ: Here are the SA cities facing the biggest threat from climate change The worldwide protest was inspired by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, 16, who rose to fame after boycotting classes to sit outside the Swedish Parliament for three weeks in August last year in protest against lack of government action to cut greenhouse gas emissions. How climate change and global warming can cause colder winters Climate change and global warming cause extreme temperature fluctuations, these are causing unusually cold winters in some regions in the US. The terms "weather" and "climate" are not interchangeable. Thunberg, who has since been on a school strike every Friday, triggered a movement around the world where thousands of school children now cut classes on Fridays in protest against the lack of action from governments to curb climate change. The latest action on March 15 will see school children - or "climate kids" as they have been dubbed - hold protest marches and rallies around the world to call for radical change in tackling climate change. One of the prime movers of the climate protest locally is Wynberg Girls High School matric pupil Ruby Sampson, 17, who was inspired by Thunberg's speech at the World Economic Forum in Davos. READ: SA falling behind on renewable energy Call for political parties to acknowledge climate change "Greta is just amazing. She is pretty much the start of this movement. When she went viral I listened to her speech at Davos and it got me involved in climate change. I am too young to vote, but we want our voices heard. Climate change is not even on the election agenda," Sampson said. In an online notice, the protesters say they intend to "stand beside Greta Thunberg and our climate comrades across Europe, Australia and North America in the Global Strike for Climate". They call for South African political parties to acknowledge the "climate emergency" and make climate action a priority in the 2019 election. They want a moratorium on new coal, gas and oil mining licences, 100% renewable energy by 2030, climate adaption education in schools and a "green new deal" for South Africa. "This is the biggest crisis faced by humanity. We will be the first species to enable our own extinction," Sampson said. Sampson, who made a four-year trip around Africa with her comedian father, Mark Sampson, mother Sam Pearce and brother Zola in the Africa Clockwise trip, said she had seen first-hand the impact of climate change on the continent and its people. Apart from Sampson, speakers at the protest outside Parliament will include pupils from schools in Ocean View and Masiphumelele, representatives from Fossil Free South Africa, Earthchild and the local branch of Extinction Rebellion. Getting the attention of those in power Sampson had expected about 500 pupils to take part. "But we've got huge support so it looks like it could be anything from 500 to 2 000." Reverend Rachel Mash, environmental coordinator for the Anglican Church and one of those helping spread the word about the local protest, said the Church of England in the UK had come out in support of the school strike. "The kids have got it but the politicians are still saying: 'Whaaat?' The IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) report said we've got 12 years to make massive shifts and the teenagers get that." Sarah Farrell, one of the key organisers, said she was doing the work pro bono to help the school children, particularly with online communications. "I believe that the cause is so important and that this is the way to get the attention of those in power." A house on fire Thunberg, who was fined by the Swedish government for her pavement protest, has since addressed delegates at the UN climate talks in Poland in December and the World Economic Forum in Switzerland in January. There she gave her "house on fire" speech, in which she dismissed adults who kept saying they needed to give young people hope. "I don't want your hope. I want you to panic," she told billionaires at Davos. "And then I want you to act. I want you to act as you would in a crisis. I want you to act as if your house is on fire. Because it is." Thunberg has criticised governments for not taking obvious action in tackling climate change. "The solution is so simple that even a small child can understand it. We have to stop our emissions of greenhouse gases. Either we do or we don't." Thunberg said she had embarked on her school strike because there was not enough direct action about climate change. "One thing we need more than hope is action, because once we start to act, hope is everywhere." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Youth gather in Paris to denounce government policies on climate A few hundred young people gather on Place Saint-Michel in Paris for a third time to denounce what they consider to be a lack of action by the government to tackle climate change. Climate campaigner Greta Thunberg takes leading role at Paris youth march The 16-year-old, who has inspired a burgeoning protest movement in Europe and beyond, began the march at Place de l'Opera at on Friday afternoon. Putting climate change on canvas Artist Zaria Forman quite literally draws attention to the issue through her pastel work. School kids on climate change strike 'misunderstood' by people, says German activist Laura Neubauer, inspired by 16 year old Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, speaks to Euronews and tells of her disappointment with the German government. Record-breaking February weather is due to warming of the Arctic, says climate expert On Monday, several parts of the UK saw some of the warmest winter days with a temperature of 20.2 Celsius recorded in west London and 20.3 in west Wales. Met Office meteorologists said Tuesday would also be unusually warm. New research debunks link between solar cycle and North Atlantic winter weather Research published in Nature Geoscience presents new evidence that debunks the existence of a correlation between solar activity and winter weather in the North. What Will Happen If All the Ice Melts? Climate change, global warming and the general state of the planet. Environmental issues are a major concern in the 21st century, but what if the worst really did happen? What if all the ice melted? How would sea levels be affected? How would international temperatures change? What impact would it have on our daily lives? Estonia elections, climate strikes and Eurotunnel settlement Take a look back at this morning's biggest stories from across Europe. Morrison unveils climate policy in Melbourne Prime Minister Scott Morrison delivers a speech in Melbourne on the Coalition's environment policy. Morrison announces $3.5 billion in spending over the next ten years, including a $50 million commitment to begin work on a second undersea cable co... Parents in Hungary unconvinced by baby boom plan Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orban has tried to boost the population by providing tax breaks and grants to mothers with at least two children, but some parents are not inspired by the initiative. Hanoi kids prepare to welcome Kim Jong Un Children at a kindergarten in Hanoi have been practicing dancing, hoping to show off their talents to North Korean leader Kim Jong Un when he comes to town for his second summit with President Donald Trump. Courteney Cox goes green Stars took on climate change at the Hollywood For Science gala – with Courteney Cox, Nina Dobrev, Josh Brolin, Gerard Butler, Rebecca De Mornay, Anjelica Huston and Laurence Fishburne attending. Teenager helps win $1.3TR to fight climate change A teenage girl has won big in her fight against climate change, after the EU pledged more than 1 trillion dollars to the cause over the next seven years. What If the Earth Rotated 10x Faster? We rarely consider how quickly the Earth is rotating as it orbits the sun. But we'd soon notice if it started spinning more quickly! But what would actually happen? Would we all be flung off our planet, catapulted out into space? Would the oceans rise up and flood all our major cities? Or would life just carry on as usual? What If It Never Rained Again? A rainy day isn't always a good thing. But, rain and the water cycle are vital for life on Earth. Given all the contemporary concerns over global warming, climate change and the environment - what's the worst that can happen? What if it never rained ever again?   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.