Zoë Postman, GroundUp 'Our rail system has gone to the dogs' - DA protests at Prasa offices The Democratic Alliance held a picket outside the offices of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA) in Hatfield, Pretoria on Wednesday. (Alet Pretorius, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The case between the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) and Siyangena Technologies will not be referred to trial, GroundUp reports. But the Prasa officials accused of corruption in Prasa's founding affidavit will be allowed to submit affidavits to the court in response to the allegations. This was in the order handed down by Judge Billy Mothle, Judge Wendy Hughes and Judge Cornelius van der Westhuizen in the Gauteng High Court in Pretoria on Friday morning. Siyangena, an information technology and security company, was hired in 2010 under Prasa's former CEO Lucky Montana to improve integrated access security systems at railway stations. Prasa applied to the court to get Siyangena's contract set aside in March 2018. Commuter activist group #UniteBehind has since joined the case as a friend of the court. The organisation wants Siyangena to be ordered to repay the money it has received, as well as for the contract to be nixed. In an affidavit submitted to the court, Prasa said Siyangena had been awarded lucrative deals without following proper tender procedures. Siyangena had installed outdated, overpriced and ineffective security systems and because of this, the contract should be set aside, Prasa argued. According to #UniteBehind, Siyangena's tenders amounted to about R4.5bn. But the judges said the court could not continue with the case because Prasa's submissions implicated its own officials who were not represented in court. They said those former employees needed to be given an opportunity to present their case in the interest of justice. Employees implicated included Montana, former project manager Luyanda Gantsho, former chief procurement officer Chris Mbatha, former senior manager in supply chain management Maishe Bopape, former company secretary Tumi Mohube, former chief procurement officer Joseph Phungula and others. The judges said the case will be postponed until everyone had been given a chance to respond to the allegations. They said all counsels needed to tell the court when they would be available so that the case could continue. In the meantime, all the implicated people will be notified of the proceedings within ten days. Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. South Africa's contestant is crowned Miss Universe South Africa's Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters has been crowned Miss Universe. The 22-year-old, who recently earned a business management degree, beat 92 other women from around the world. South Africa pledges $4.9 bln Eskom bailout South Africa will give state power utility Eskom 69 billion rand ($4.9 billion) over three years, Finance Minister Tito Mboweni said while delivering the key part of the country's budget on Wednesday. How 1,500 Chinese Workers Built a Railroad in Only 9 Hours China needed a railway station built - quickly. A small army of workers with a collective one-track mind later and the job was done overnight. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Newborn baby girl pulled out of South African storm drain Emergency services were called after cries were heard coming from the drain in Newlands East, near Durban in South Africa. Following a three-hour rescue operation, police are now investigating how the baby got there in the first place. Eleven taxi drivers shot dead in South Africa Gunmen shot dead 11 taxi drivers returning to Johannesburg from the funeral of a colleague in Kwa-Zulu Natal. Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine. Mass powercuts in South Africa, sabotage denied South Africa has suffered a third day of powercuts caused by major problems at the main energy supplier Eskom. The government has only recently announced plans to split the company up. How to speak 'Black Panther' The official language of Wakanda is isiXhosa - also spoken in parts of South Africa South Africa: Muti - a threat to nature In order to meet the huge demand for the traditional remedies known as 'muti', plants in South Africa are being harvested on a scale that is no longer sustainable. The pepper-bark tree, for example, is widely used, even though it is endangered. South Africa's venomous and most dangerous spiders Do you know how to spot a potentially dangerous spider? Learn about South Africa's venomous spiders and how to protect your family. 8 Incredible hikes in SA that will clear the mind South Africa is blessed with some of the best hiking trails in the world, but here's just a few to get you started on planning your next trek through nature. 1 out of 3 conference delegates come back to SA for a holiday, bringing their family and friends Leisure incentive travel is relatively small for South Africa and the continent as a whole, as a result it is the major congresses and conferences that really matter, says South African Tourism Minister Derek Hanekom. Apple's Lisa Jackson on Protecting the Planet Apple's Lisa Jackson sits down with Matthew Panzarino to discuss how tech can safeguard the environment, including issues of repairability and supply chain management. Trump weighs into South Africa's contested issue of land reform U.S. President Donald Trump is wading into a debate over the highly disproportionate ownership of land by whites in South Africa. Pretoria rejects his claim of "large scale killing of farmers". Matthew Larotonda and Ed Stoddard report. Newborn baby rescued from storm drain in SAfrica Rescue workers in South Africa pulled a newborn baby from a storm drain in a four-hour operation that ended with applause and cheers from onlookers. PM takes questions about SNC-Lavalin as court loss shifts spotlight to Trudeau's new attorney genera The spotlight in the SNC-Lavalin affair has shifted to rookie Justice Minister David Lametti now that a court has rejected the company's bid to force the public prosecutor to pursue an alternative to criminal proceedings. In Iqaluit on Friday, Pri... Former Catalan vice president tells court he is a 'political prisoner' “This is a political trial and I refuse to answer to my accusers... I am a political prisoner and I am on trial for my ideas,” Oriol Junqueras said. South Africa's white farmers seek role in land reform as economic pressure grows White South African farmers are seeking a role in land reform as the ruling ANC moves to change the constitution to allow for the expropriation of white-owned land to rectify racial ownership disparities. Come Dine with Me SA is back! The SAFTA award winning series returns for a fifth season from Monday 11 March on BBC Brit (DStv 120). WATCH: South African farmers have built the first floating solar park in Africa Western Cape farmers have built Africa's first commercial floating solar park – that now let's them tackle load shedding and drought. They say it's a better investment than a new orchard. Authorities inspect wreckage of deadly Cairo train crash A hurtling locomotive crashed, derailed and caught fire at Cairo's main train station on Wednesday, killing at least 20 people in the latest disaster to strike Egypt's rundown railways. Rail passengers reminded to look out for their friends' safety this Christmas Festive party-goers are being urged to take extra care of their friends and colleagues - as new figures reveal that within the Christmas and New Year period, the number of violent offences recorded at railway stations fuelled by alcohol have more ... WATCH: Three accused of murdering Mihalik appear in court The three men accused of Pete Mihalik's murder - Vuyile Maliti, Sinozokohle Biyela and Nkosinathi Khumalo - appear in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Friday 15 February 2019. Prosecutors seek new sentence in Van Dyke case Illinois' attorney general says he's asking the state Supreme Court to order a new sentence for the white Chicago police officer who fatally shot black teenager Laquan McDonald. Top pope aide Cardinal Pell convicted of child sex crimes A court has found  Australian Cardinal George Pell guilty on one count of sexual abuse and four counts of indecent assault of two boys at Saint Patrick's Cathedral in Melbourne in the 1990s. Pell was convicted at a retrial on December 11, but a wi... Manafort sentence set for Thursday President Donald Trump's former campaign chairman Paul Manafort will be sentenced by a federal judge in Virginia on Thursday for bank and tax fraud crimes that were uncovered during Special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigation into whether Trump's WATCH: Rohde 'used wife's body as a show house' to sell his story – Judge Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe referenced Jason Rohde's history as the former CEO of Lew Geffen Sotheby's International Realty by comparing the staging of his wife's suicide to the staging of a house by estate agents. WATCH LIVE: Jason Rohde sentencing procedures get underway Convicted murderer Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings will get underway in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday December 5. WATCH: #UniteBehind to launch #DelayRepay campaign at Cape Town Station #UniteBehind is set to launch #DelayRepay, a campaign to demand better rail service and compensation in cases of continued delays, later on Thursday. WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 3) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? Cardinal George Pell to spend first night behind bars Former Vatican treasurer Cardinal George Pell will spend his first night behind bars after he was remanded into custody pending sentencing for sexually abusing two choir boys in Australia two decades ago. 'Our rail system has gone to the dogs' - DA protests at Prasa offices The Democratic Alliance held a picket outside the offices of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA) in Hatfield, Pretoria on Wednesday. RAW: 4000 car spaces added for Northwest Metro in NSw NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian speaking to media in Sydney about the nearing opening of the Rouse Hill to Chatswood Northwest Metro rail line. Berejiklian says 4000 new car spaces have been built in time for the line opening. SC orders mediation for Ayodhya The Supreme Court on Friday referred the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid land dispute case for mediation by a panel headed by former apex court judge F M I Kallifulla and gave it eight weeks to complete the process. The other members of the panel wil... SC orders mediation for Ayodhya Land Dispute Case The Supreme Court on Friday referred the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid land dispute case for mediation by a panel headed by former apex court judge F M I Kallifulla and gave it eight weeks to complete the process. The other members of the panel wil... Chelsea Manning jailed for refusing to testify A federal judge ordered Chelsea Manning held in contempt of court Friday for refusing to answer questions in a grand jury investigation into Wikileaks. The U.S. Army soldier served seven years in prison for leaking classified data to Wikileaks while RAW: Family of Patricia Riggs speaks outside court Members of Patricia Anne Riggs' family speak after her husband, Edmund Ian Riggs, was acquitted of her murder in 2001. He was instead found guilty of her manslaughter by a Brisbane Supreme Court jury on Wednesday. Her brother, Mark Knowles, calls for Riggs to reveal where the rest of her remains are. Reporter: El Chapo upbeat at trial AP reporter Claudia Torrens has been covering the trial of Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman since it began and describes how the jury deliberations have been going in recent days. Charged and Disbarred - Part 13 Ken Anderson was appointed to the court in 2002 by Governor Rick Perry. He resigned from his position on September 23, 2013 after he was arrested for withholding exculpatory evidence Ex-Minneapolis cop arrives in court ahead of trial A former Minneapolis police officer charged in the 2017 shooting death of an unarmed Australian woman appeared in court Friday, as attorneys for both sides argued several issues in his case. 78,000 x 550? This boy knows the answer Sibahle Zwane is only 10, but his maths skills have made him an internet sensation in South Africa. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. Indonesia tests first underground railway Indonesia's capital Jakarta tests its mass rapid transit (MRT) which is set to enter full service in March. The Jakarta MRT, which will also be the country's first ever underground rail network, is expected to provide solution to Jakarta's worseni... 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Here are 7 things you may not have known about Babes Wodumo She's one of the most popular female artists in South Africa at the moment, but how well do you actually know Babes Wodumo? (Photos: Gallo Images) WATCH: JHB high court evacuated after prisoners escape Gauteng police have confirmed that the Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg has been evacuated following the escape of two prisoners on Friday morning. Who should own South Africa's land? Plans to redistribute land from white farmers to landless blacks are raising deep feelings. Here's why. Who should own South Africa's land? Plans to redistribute land from white farmers to landless blacks are raising deep feelings. Here's why.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.