Ntwaagae Seleka Lungisani Innocent Mdlolo. (Saps, Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Convicted murderer and rapist Lungisani Innocent Mdlolo, who has been on the run from the police for three years, is expected to finally know his fate on Wednesday. Mdlolo, who was dubbed 'one man' because he single-handedly terrorised the community in Soweto, was convicted of murder, three rapes, five armed robberies, 10 housebreakings and the possession of an unlicensed firearm. Most of his crimes occurred in Kliptown, Soweto in 2012. In December 2014 - the day that Judge George Maluleke was supposed to sentence him - he escaped from the Gauteng High Court sitting in Palm Ridge. READ: Cop suspended over escape of serial rapist It was believed he had not been cuffed at the time of his escape and police suspected that he had been armed. Soon after his escape, a police officer who was on duty when he bolted out of the building was suspended. His escape sparked fear among his victims, who believed he would kill them. He was rearrested in December 2018, together with seven other people in connection with a cash-in-transit heist that took place in Katlehong and Meyerton. He was found in possession of a revolver. WATCH: JHB high court evacuated after prisoners escape Gauteng police have confirmed that the Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg has been evacuated following the escape of two prisoners on Friday morning. WATCH: IPID denies timing of Phahlane's arrest is 'suspicious' Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) Spokesperson Moses Dlamini has denied allegations that Khomotso Phahlane's arrest was a show for the media. WATCH: Closing arguments in Rohde trial - was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband Jason violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH LIVE: Jason Rohde sentencing procedures get underway Convicted murderer Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings will get underway in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday December 5. WATCH: Three accused of murdering Mihalik appear in court The three men accused of Pete Mihalik's murder - Vuyile Maliti, Sinozokohle Biyela and Nkosinathi Khumalo - appear in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Friday 15 February 2019.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.