Tammy Petersen High Court. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Mitchells Plain pastor facing multiple rape and murder charges in the Western Cape High Court is considering concluding a plea and sentencing agreement. Keith Bird made a brief appearance before Cape Judge President John Hlophe on Monday when a draft of the Section 105 A document, which is a plea bargain without a trial, involving plea and sentencing negotiations took place. After reprimanding the accused for wearing a T-shirt to his courtroom and warning him to "dress properly and show decorum", Hlophe postponed the matter to March 11 for the finalisation of the agreement. Bird is accused of murdering his fiancé, An-Niesa Bardien, 36, six years ago after their engagement was broken off. Read: Alleged serial rapist files for bail He allegedly got a woman to lure Bardien into the bushes near Camp Road in Strandfontein. It is alleged that he strangled her and "crushed her head", using a rock to repeatedly hit her. Her body was found buried in a shallow grave 10 days later on January 18, 2013. Four months later, he allegedly raped and strangled Sharvonne Koense, 20, and left her body in the bushes near Baden Powell Road, near Tafelsig. Koense's half-naked body was discovered that same day. That same year, Bird – a supervisor at a cleaning company - allegedly recorded himself having sex with a colleague. Eight rape charges The State alleges that the woman would have sex with Bird for favours at work. She had not been aware that he had made a recording, which he showed to four co-workers. For this, he faces four charges of crimen injuria. He has also been indicted on eight charges of rape. The first allegedly occurred in January 2014, when he went to the Lentegeur house of a woman he encountered on messaging app, Mxit. He allegedly threatened to "shock her" if she did not co-operate and forced her to perform oral sex on him. That same day, he allegedly raped her and stole her cellphone. Also read: Pastor arrested for allegedly raping minor at his church "The accused returned to the complainant's house after this incident twice every week from January 2014 until May 2014. He threatened her and her family if she didn't comply with this demands," the State alleges in its papers. In May 2014, he ostensibly met a woman he had encountered on Facebook and offered a modelling job. She was lured to bushes in Rocklands, Mitchells Plain and forced at knife point to perform oral sex on Bird, the prosecution alleged. Bird had also ostensibly been armed with a Taser. He is accused of two years later raping a woman in his Lost City house after she agreed to meet him to discuss prospective employment. Bird allegedly raped her about two weeks later in a bush near Kapteinsklip Station. WATCH: Witness says she was 14 when pastor Timothy Omotoso started molesting her The first witness has taken the stand of the trial of controversial pastor Timothy Omotoso, taking place in Port Elizabeth. WATCH: Rohde 'used wife's body as a show house' to sell his story – Judge Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe referenced Jason Rohde's history as the former CEO of Lew Geffen Sotheby's International Realty by comparing the staging of his wife's suicide to the staging of a house by estate agents. WATCH: Life sentences for Hannah Cornelius' murderers The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. WATCH: Murder-accused Packham to spend Christmas in jail Murder-accused Rob Packham's bail was withdrawn for contacting witnesses and he was ordered to stay in custody until his trial in March over the death of his wife, the Western Cape High Court ruled on Thursday. WATCH: Courtney Pieters' killer gets two life sentences for her rape, murder The Western Cape High Court has sentenced Mortimer Saunders to two life sentences for the rape and murder of 3-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH: Siam Lee's mother breaks down as details of her death heard in court Siam Lee's mother Carmen Nans Lee says she wasn't expecting to hear details of her child's murder on Wednesday. WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.