Sesona Ngqakamba The Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) is investigating the emergency landing of a private light aircraft in Pretoria on Tuesday morning. The pilot escaped unharmed after he was forced to land on the N1 highway near Hammanskraal, north of Pretoria. According to CAA spokesperson Kabelo Ledwaba, the Piper 46 Malibu (turboprop engine) had departed from the Wonderboom Airport and was scheduled to land at the Pietersburg Civil Airport in Polokwane, Limpopo. However, soon after departure at 07:49, the aircraft had to make an emergency landing. Ledwaba said the circumstances leading up to the landing were being investigated. No injuries were reported and the pilot was the only passenger on board. PLANE MAKES EMERGENCY LANDING : N1 HAMMANSKRAAL. PTA. GP. pic.twitter.com/ehF9QuyeCs In January, News24 reported that a couple escaped uninjured after their light aircraft made an emergency landing at a beach in Jeffreys Bay, Eastern Cape. The National Sea Rescue Institute said at the time that the Plettenberg Bay pilot and his wife had been found safe on the beach. WATCH: 'Leave her alone' - commuters defend passenger allegedly dragged from Kulula flight Fellow commuters of the passenger who was forcibly removed from a Kulula flight during the early hours of Saturday, insist that the woman did nothing wrong. Watch the footage above. WATCH: 'Unruly' passenger forcibly removed from Kulula flight A passenger was forcibly removed from a Kulula flight bound for Johannesburg from Durban on Sunday night. Cox on plane emergency: 'What you don't know is scarier' Speaking at the Hollywood for Science Gala, actress Courteney Cox said the recent emergency landing she was involved in was "actually fine." Passenger describes terrifying moment of window smashing on plane A passenger on board the Southwest Airlines flight forced to make an emergency landing in Philadelphia has described the terrifying moment a window smashed on the plane. Post Malone's jet lands safely after two tyres blow A private jet carrying rapper Post Malone blew two tyres during take-off at a small New Jersey airport on Tuesday but made a safe emergency landing hours later in upstate New York, prompting the rapper to thank fans who prayed for him. WATCH: Lanseria baggage handler to be rewarded for doing a sterling job at the carousel Every single piece of luggage that rolls past Ephraim Sibeko on the carousel at Lanseria International Airport is carefully maneuvered to be right side up with the handle pointing outward. All you have to do, is step up and grab what's yours. WATCH: OR Tambo baggage handler caught slinging suitcases, suspended The OR Tambo International Airport baggage handler who was caught on camera carelessly flinging suitcases from the carousel onto the floor has been suspended. WATCH: OR Tambo Airport security 'accept' cash bribe Security officials at  OR Tambo International Airport are alleged to have accepted a cash bribe from a passenger on Saturday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.