Jeanette Chabalala in Mahikeng WATCH: 'I miss him every day' - Mother of murdered Coligny teen Pieter Doorewaard and Phillip Schutte were found guilty of murdering 16-year-old Matlhomola Moshoeu after they had caught him stealing a sunflower in Coligny. They were also found guilty of kidnapping, intimidation, theft and pointing a firearm. Sixteen-year-old Matlhomola Moshoeu's father, Saki Dingake, says he is "heartbroken" and "unhappy" about the sentences imposed on his son's killers. "I am heartbroken. I still can't accept that he is no longer with us (and) I am not satisfied with the sentences," an emotional Dingake told reporters shortly after the North West High Court adjourned on Wednesday. Dingake said he was expecting the accused to be sentenced to life in prison.  #Coligny Matlhomola Moshoeu's father says he is not happy with the sentence. He expected the men to be sentenced to life in prison @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/Mxn4BnkxTt  Earlier on Wednesday, Pieter Doorewaard and Phillip Schutte were sentenced to 18 and 23 years in prison respectively. In imposing the sentences, Judge Ronnie Hendricks said the murder was not planned or premeditated. He added that there was no direct intention to kill the deceased. However, he said the accused must have foreseen that the possibility of throwing the deceased head-first (from a moving vehicle) could result in death. Hendricks also considered the fact that the men were first-time offenders. Appeal sentence Meanwhile, the accused's lawyer, Frik van Tonder, told News24 that the men would appeal their convictions and sentences. According to the law, the appeal should be lodged within 14 days of the sentencing, Van Tonder said. Lobby group AfriForum previously indicated that it had decided to help pay the men's legal costs. The lobby group says advocate Barry Roux will come on board to assist AfriForum's Gerrie Nel when the men appeal the sentencing. Roux will lead the defence, while Nel will provide input. The two legal minds went head-to-head in the Oscar Pistorius murder trial. Doorewaard and Schutte were found guilty in November last year of murder, kidnapping, intimidation, theft and pointing a firearm. Moshoeu died on April 20, 2017, after he was thrown from a moving vehicle. The men, however, claimed that he jumped from the vehicle while they were on their way to the police station with him, after they caught him stealing sunflower heads at a farm. Moshoeu's death sparked protests in the area and several houses and businesses were burnt to the ground. Some residents claimed he was killed because he was black.  #Coligny community leader Stanny Mnyakama says Bonakele Pakisi (eyewitness in the murder case) did not lie in court @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/7Um0hILZHZ   WATCH: Two farm workers accused of killing Coligny teen found guilty Two farm workers accused of killing a 15-year-old Coligny teen were found guilt of murder in the North West High Court in Mahikeng on Wednesday. WATCH: Stealing Sunflowers | A News24 Documentary on race relations in Coligny News24 explores the events surrounding the death of 16-year-old Matlhomola Mosweu and how it changed the small North West town of Coligny forever. WATCH: Malema condemns rape threats after EFF posts Karima Brown's number Speaking after his birthday celebrations in Ekhuruleni, EFF leader Julius Malema on Tuesday condemned rape being used as a threat. WATCH: We are not convinced Karima Brown works for ENCA - Malema Speaking after his birthday celebrations in Ekhuruleni, EFF leader Julius Malema on Tuesday responded to questions regarding the party's public spat with journalist Karima Brown. WATCH: Three Durban schoolchildren die after being hit by a taxi Three schoolchildren have been killed and another is in a serious condition after they were struck by a minibus taxi on Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, KwaZulu-Natal. WATCH: Prophet Mboro reiterates that he never went to heaven Self-proclaimed prophet Paseka "Mboro" Motsoeneng has reiterated that  he never went to heaven and snapped selfies with Jesus, instead this story was planted by the PR team of another self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri. WATCH: Man says he was assaulted for 'staring' at perpetrator's wife While waiting for an order at a Benoni pizza outlet, a 28-year-old, Ekurhuleni, man was allegedly beaten up by a group of white men and called a k*** allegedly for staring at one of the men's wife. 'Please continue to support them' - Babe Wodumo's father to parents of abuse victims On Tuesday Bongekile Simelane's parents spoke on her behalf at a press conference as she was too ill to be there. Video of UFS student cleaning up after EFF protesters has social media users at one another's throat A University of the Free State (UFS) student has unwittingly opened a virtual can of worms after a video of him cleaning up after protesters went viral.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.