Adriaan Basson A tribute rally was held for the late Vernie Petersen at St George’s Cathedral on 2 March 2019. (Neil Cole) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The widow of former prisons boss Vernie Petersen has called on her late husband’s political head, Ngconde Balfour, to give evidence before the Zondo Commission into state capture. June Petersen was one of several speakers at the launch of the Justice4Vernie Foundation at St George’s Cathedral in Cape Town on Saturday. The foundation will support initiatives to build an ethical public service and nominate Vernie Petersen to receive the Order of the Baobab posthumously. Petersen’s name came up during the testimony of former Bosasa chief operating officer Angelo Agrizzi, who testified before Zondo that the corruption-accused company allegedly paid R1m per month to prison officials, Popcru members and former prisons boss Khulekani Sithole to undermine Petersen’s efforts to clean up correctional services. Petersen was moved to the sports department in 2010 after butting heads with Balfour about rooting out corruption in the department. He died in 2011. June Petersen said on Saturday that her late husband worked alongside Balfour in the Anglican Church’s Board of Social Responsibility in the 1980s. "I really hope he will go to the Zondo Commission because he has to," she said. READ: Presidency to wait for Zondo report before acting against Cabinet members Her sentiments were echoed by Neil Cole, longtime friend of the Petersens and convenor of the foundation, who said Vernie Petersen was "prevented by a corrupt minister of correctional services" to root out corruption in the department. Petersen was overruled by Balfour in his attempts to prevent an extension of a prisons catering contract that was awarded to Bosasa in 2004. The contract was cancelled last month, 15 years later, after Agrizzi’s explosive evidence to the commission. In a recorded message, Archbishop Thabo Makgoba also said it was "time for Balfour to account to the Zondo Commission". Agrizzi testified that numerous correctional services officials were bribed by Bosasa, but that they couldn’t get to Petersen. He also denied that Balfour was bribed with a discounted 4X4 vehicle. Former finance minister Trevor Manuel, who fought alongside Petersen in the anti-apartheid structures in Mitchell’s Plain, said it was common cause that the struggle "has veered way off course". He said it was fundamentally important for leaders to ask themselves "what do we do about the stuff we encounter?" This was in response to June Petersen’s comments that her husband turned to his colleagues in cabinet and even in the Presidency (under Thabo Mbeki) when he was under pressure, but was told to turn a blind eye. Manuel said it was important that wrongdoers go to jail. "We cannot pretend that they represent us." Former Cape Town mayor Theresa Solomon said "as a collective we failed to protect comrade Vernie". She drew parallels with the way in which Police Minister Bheki Cele had recently gotten rid of Robert McBride as head of the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) and called on those in attendance to protest against this move. "Mr Minister, hands off Robert McBride!"  WATCH: Barbara Hogan wraps up testimony at state capture inquiry (Day 3/Part 1) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan will on Wednesday wrap up her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture. WATCH: Barbara Hogan wraps up testimony at state capture (Day 3/Part2) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan will on Wednesday wrap up her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan continues testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day2 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan faced intimidation and victimisation for refusing to be party to state capture, the judicial inquiry into state capture headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo heard on Monday. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan continues testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day2 / Part1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan faced intimidation and victimisation for refusing to be party to state capture, the judicial inquiry into state capture headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo heard on Monday. WATCH: 'Pravin lied to our people' – EFF While Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg on Monday, the EFF made its presence known, protesting outside the venue. WATCH: Mzwanele Manyi takes the stand at state capture inquiry (Day 1 / Part 2) Former Government Communication and Information System (GCIS) CEO Mzwanele Manyi took the stand at the state capture commission of inquiry in Johannesburg on Wednesday. WATCH: Mbalula willing to testify at #StateCaptureInquiry Fikile Mbalula on Thursday said he is ready to testify at the state capture inquiry. WATCH: Agrizzi details unfair advantage given to Bosasa to secure 'one of the biggest' tenders Former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi is on the stand for the fifth day at the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH | 'Every single contract was tainted with bribes' - Agrizzi testifies #StateCaptureInquiry The second day of testimony by former Bosasa top boss Angelo Agrizzi in the commission of inquiry into state capture continues. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day1 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: Mzwanele Manyi takes the stand at state capture inquiry (Day1 / Part1) Former Government Communication and Information System (GCIS) CEO Mzwanele Manyi took the stand at the state capture commission of inquiry in Johannesburg on Wednesday. WATCH: Barbara Hogan testifies at state capture inquiry (Part 5) Former minister of public enterprises Barbara Hogan on Monday gave testimony at the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. WATCH: Barbara Hogan testifies at state capture inquiry (Part 4) Former minister of public enterprises Barbara Hogan on Monday gave testimony at the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry: Agrizzi continues his testimony, who will be implicated? Angelo Agrizzi has revealed more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. ANALYSIS | #StateCaptureInquiry: Unpacking Agrizzi's testimony Watch as News24 investigative journalist Kyle Cowen and journalist Jeanette Chabalala unpack former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi's revelations at the state capture commission. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi testifies at state capture inquiry The Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture resumed on Wednesday with former Bosasa employee Angelo Agrizzi on the witness stand. WATCH: Barbara Hogan to testify at state capture inquiry (part 1) Former minister of public enterprises Barbara Hogan will on Monday begin her testimony at the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. WATCH: Barbara Hogan testifies at state capture inquiry (Part 3) Former minister of public enterprises Barbara Hogan on Monday gave her testimony at the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. WATCH: Barbara Hogan testifies at state capture inquiry (Part 2) Former minister of public enterprises Barbara Hogan on Monday gave testimony at the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day1 / Part3) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day 1/Part 1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: Agrizzi, Watson paid regular visits to Mokonyane's house, along with R50 000 #StateCaptureInquiry | Angelo Agrizzi continues to reveal more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. LIVE LUNCHTIME ANALYSIS: Gordhan challenges his detractors, says Treasury was a target Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan continued with his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture after scratching the surface in detailing incidents of malfeasance within government. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan wraps up his testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day3 / Part1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan wrapped up his testimony at the judicial inquiry into state capture sitting in Johannesburg on Wednesday. Watch.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.