Lizeka Tandwa Midvaal municipality (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Deputy municipal manager in the DA-led local municipality of Midvaal, Thom Peeters, has been placed on special leave after a whistleblower reported allegations of irregular appointments, Mayor Bongani Baloyi has confirmed to News24. Baloyi told News24 that Peeters has been accused of flouting council regulations in appointing staff. Peeters is also accused of hiring a law firm where his wife is employed. "In terms of the law, I must report to council within seven days, which is what I did. Council then decided to appoint an independent law firm to investigate... The municipal manager saw it fit that he must be placed on special leave," he said. Also read: Midvaal mayor, man arrested over counter assault claims Peeters has until Wednesday to give reasons why he should not be suspended, Baloyi said. "These allegations must be tested. Within the close of business, we must appoint a legal firm to investigate these allegations." Baloyi added that an external audit last year into appointments in the municipality had pointed to procedural errors. This, he said, was a matter of great concern and "must be attended [to] with urgency". "We treat this as quite serious. We understand what corruption can do and has done to our country. Corruption must be found and dealt with, whether its senior or junior people. However, we must be able to afford people the proper processes, you must be seen to be innocent until proven guilty."   WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: Mzwandile Masina inspects Benoni dam wall after collapse Ekurhuleni Mayor Mzwandile Masina conducted a site inspection at Middle Lake in Benoni, Gauteng, on Thursday following a partial dam wall collapse. WATCH. WATCH: DA leader Mmusi Maimane talks Solly Msimanga's future in the DA Although DA leader Mmusi Maimane refuses to commit to a number, when it comes to the party's ambitions ahead of the general elections next year, he makes it clear he has his eyes set on Gauteng. WATCH: Democratic Alliance councillor Brett Herron resigns DA City of Cape Town MMC for Transport and Housing Brett Herron has resigned with immediate effect. Herron said that the DA is ignoring its manifesto to provide affordable housing and integration. WATCH: Dan Plato elected as Cape Town mayor Dan Plato has been elected as Cape Town's new executive mayor during a special council sitting on Tuesday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.