Canny Maphanga WATCH: 'My f*k, Marelize...' - reaction to girl riding bike into rugby posts has people in stitches A video of Namibian Marelize Horn, 19, crashing her bicycle into rugby poles has been going viral, not so much because of her lack of co-ordination, but mostly owing to the reaction of her mother. Marelize Horn.  (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Pick n Pay has invited the stars of the "My f*k Marelize" viral video, Marelize Horn and her mother, Heidi, to join the Cape Town Cycle Tour over the weekend. In the video, Marelize rides her bicycle on the rugby field at Affies Park in Windhoek. She rides in a circular motion and then heads straight for the rugby posts, before crashing right into them. Her mother then exclaims in Afrikaans: "My fok, Marelize...", before starting to walk toward her. The 19-year-old has described herself as "'n ongeluksvoël" (accident-prone person) who falls down almost every day. "My mum Heidi says: 'My fok, Marelize' to me almost every day! I fall off things, walk into things – it's insane how clumsy I am," Marelize told News24 in an earlier report. ALSO READ:'My f*k, Marelize' talks to us: 'I fall down every day' Marelize will be arriving from Namibia on Saturday and is expected to get pro-cycling tips from rising cyclist stars from the Velokhaya Life Cycling Academy team. She will also get the honour of waving off the cyclists at the start of the Cape Town Cycle Tour on Sunday. ALSO READ: 'My f*k, Marelize...' - reaction to girl riding bike into rugby posts has people in stitches 'Why I want parkour to be an Olympic sport' Michael has been doing flips since seeing parkour videos on YouTube. Velo Liberte Paris' ambitious Velo Liberte bike initiative encourages residents to forgo cars for bikes and public transportation. In the process, the programme has fostered a unique popular culture, complete with its own language, jokes and pick-up lines. "Germany's forgotten genocide in Namibia " Namibia's Herero people have filed a lawsuit in the US against Germany over a genocide in the early 20th century. Is YouTube ensuring a safe environment for children? A shocking clip with suicide instructions was embedded in a game video on YouTube recently. And it isn't the first disturbing video found on the platform that appears to be "child-friendly". #YouTubeKids #Unsafe #ParentalControl Officials and commuters react after train crash Officials and commuters respond with calls for caution and patience on the roadways following the deadly crash of two commuter trains into a car that had driven around lowered crossing gates and onto the tracks. This dragon-shaped bicycle is made of 22,000 ICE CREAM STICKS A dragon-shaped bicycle made of ice cream sticks was unveiled by its creator Sun Chao in Kaiyuan City. The bike is made out of 22,000 ice cream sticks, and weighs 20.5 kg (45 lbs). It is capable of spitting fire, spraying mist, and can be illumina... Quick Guide to Namibia With 120-days visa-free available to South Africans, why not plan your next Afri-Travel escape in Namibia. Here's the key info you need to know about. Kim Kardashian pleads with YouTube to ban disturbing 'Momo' challenges Kim Kardashian has pleaded with Youtube to step in and ban the disturbing "Momo" challenges from appearing in videos on the sharing platform. Tour de France 2021: Copenhagen to host start of world's biggest bike race The world’s best city for cycling will host the start of the planet’s biggest bike race, it was confirmed today. Germany returns human remains of Namibia genocide Human remains of tribespeople who were killed as a reprisal to a revolt against land seizures in Namibia in the colonial era were handed over by Germany at a church ceremony in Berlin on August 29. Cars dangerously passing cyclists highlighted in VR film A virtual reality film has been made to show drivers a close pass from a cyclist's perspective.

The footage provides a 360-degree view of what happens when a vehicle overtaking a bike does not leave enough room. Top 10 Travel Vloggers Top 10 Travel Vloggers

You haven’t seen the world until you’ve experienced it through the eyes of these people. Welcome to MojoTravels and today we’ll be counting down our picks for the Top 10 Best Travel Vloggers.

For this list, we’re taking a look at YouTubers who travel the globe, making us all want to get off the couch and satisfy our wanderlust.

10: Sailing La Vagabonde

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCZdQjaSoLjIzFnWsDQOv4ww

9: Mark Wiens

https://www.youtube.com/user/migrationology

8: Kristen & Siya

https://www.youtube.com/user/hopscotchtheglobe

7: Samuel & Audrey

https://www.youtube.com/user/BackpackingTravelTV

6: Mr Ben Brown

https://www.youtube.com/user/benbrown100

5: Expert Vagabond

https://www.youtube.com/user/ExpertVagabond

4: Gone with the Wynns

https://www.youtube.com/user/gonewiththewynns

3, 2, 1 . . . ??

#Travel # Vlogger #TravelVloggers Patreon: The Idea Patreon founders Jack Conte and Sam Yam talk about the YouTube video that triggered the creation of their startup. How Electric Scooters Could Reshape Cities with Caen Contee (Lime) | Disrupt Berlin 2018 Lime has been rolling out its electric scooters across Europe. As European cities are slowly evolving to make it easier to use a bike instead of a car, electric scooters foster a whole new set of questions. Should cities adapt to scooters or shoul... The RadMini By Rad Power Bike Is Hefty Yet Rad! Tito Hamze reviews the Radmini Electric Folding Fat bike by Rad Power Bikes. This thing is a heavy beast but one hell of a smooth ride. WATCH: Vicki Momberg's mother shocked at daughter's racist slurs Former real estate agent Vicki Momberg caused outrage after her racist tirade in 2016. In a video clip that went viral, Momberg could be heard complaining about the "calibre of blacks" in Johannesburg. Video of UFS student cleaning up after EFF protesters has social media users at one another's throat A University of the Free State (UFS) student has unwittingly opened a virtual can of worms after a video of him cleaning up after protesters went viral. Selling for Dad Claudine's father is in a seniors' residence, but enjoys his weekly visits back to his home where he can be amongst his things. To make it easier, Claudine plans to sell her home, and move back to her parent's place. Indian family on the fringes sees hope in their 7-year-old For one desperately poor Indian family living on the fringes of New Delhi, hope can be found in their 7-year-old son. Little Taimur goes to play badminton with mom Kareena The little sensation Taimur Ali Khan with actress mommy Kareena Kapoor Khan were snapped while they were heading to play badminton on Monday Mom, Dad - I'm Selling Your House At 28, Kevin has a fiance, Emma, two small children and two homes. Finances are tight so with Emma's encouragement, he decides to sell one. Unfortunately for his parents, it's the house they're living in. Whippet chases after racehorse in new Fenton-style viral hit A whippet named Bobby is being described as the new Fenton after sprinting off and chasing after a racehorse. Victoria Beckham to launch YouTube channel Victoria Beckham is pulling out all the stops to ensure the launch of her official 'Youtube' channel is a success, and will debut the platform with a live stream of her London Fashion Week show. How the Westminster terror attack unfolded A map recreation shows the route taken by a car which struck cyclists and pedestrians in what police are calling a terrorist incident. Bicycle comeback in Beijing? Beijing was once filled with bicycles. But as prosperity grew, those who could swapped their bikes for automobiles. Now bike-share systems have hit the scene. Will two-wheeled transportation soon rule the roads in China's capital once again? Mourners pay tribute to New Orleans cyclists Mourners placed bouquets and Mardi Gras beads near the bike lane in New Orleans where two cyclists were killed and seven people were injured over the weekend. Turning 107 in style - celebrating with a cycle ride What better way to spend your 107th birthday than with a bike ride? Senior cyclist Robert Marchand blew out his birthday candles after cycling around 15km on a green track in Ardèche, in the south west of France, surrounded by supporters. Although... Bike rider epic fail! A cyclist misjudges a large puddle and goes headfirst over the handlebars. Always look left! A bike rider pulls out in front of a car which crashes into him. Man shot by cyclist in Belle Vale A 27-year-old man dies after being shot by a gunman riding a push bike in Belle Vale, Liverpool. Fixing bikes in Marrakech Jobs for young people are scarce in Morocco. Many think they stand a better chance of a decent future in Europe. Those with marketable skills are more likely to thrive at home. A project in Marrakech trains bicycle mechanics and tour guides. Cyclist says she's sad over bike ban in Mount Royal Cemetery As of August 1, a cemetery atop Mount Royal in Montreal, a popular spot for cyclists, will no longer permit bicycles on its property. One rider says she believes the ban comes after some cyclists were not respectful of the grounds. Cycling fail Cyclist hits pedestrian while doing a trick. Mountain Biking Trails Travel with Miles Rowland from World Nomads as he explores Trinidad & Tobago, navigating the landscape by mountain bike, and discovering the tropical nature and wildlife of the Caribbean. Amazing tricks on old style bike WS Penny Farthing bicycle stunt. New footage shows devastation of Liverpool car park blaze New footage shows the extent of the fire that scorched a car park in Kings Dock in Liverpool. A Land Rover burst into flames on Sunday before turning the building into an inferno. Steve Carell hit by car while riding his bike Steve Carell was just left pretty shaken up after a car hit him while he was out riding his bike. Ishaan Khattar trolled for riding bike with headphones on Dhadak actor Ishaan Khattar, get trolled recently for wearing headphones while riding bicycle on Mumbai roads. The dirt bikes of DC Is riding a dirt bike down a city street a harmless form of relaxation or a menace? Take a look at Peugeot's new fold-out electric bicycle The new Peugeot Ef01 electric bike integrates perfectly into the back of the new 5008 SUV. 
The bike has been designed to be used for the 'last mile' of a commute - when drivers find it the hardest to find a parking space. When you use the wrong breaks... A man riding a mountain bike fails when using the breaks. Having fun on a treadmill Young man riding bicycle on treadmill. Bike Fail A mountain biker goes over the handlebars after failing to complete a jump. Lagos BMX crews 'like family' Riding BMX bikes keeps young kids from the ghetto out of trouble, says Nigerian rider Starboy. Top 10 Underrated Beauty YouTubers If you’re not familiar with these gurus, get ready to hit subscribe. For this list, we’re looking at some lesser known YouTube beauty experts, as well those who do have plenty of followers but who still don’t get the recognition they deserve. YouTubeland YouTube is travelling like a high-speed train into one of the most powerful online platforms in the world. Which clever earnings model is hiding behind this success story, and how will this affect our future media landscape? Top 10 Crazy Bikes Throughout History These bikes were made for popping a wheelie. Top 10 Crazy Bikes Throughout History These bikes were made for popping a wheelie. Chargin' at San Francisco Hills with Electric Jump Bikes Jump Bikes is a newer bike share program that launched in San Francisco. They use electric assist bikes so you can reach speeds up to 20mph. I rode around the city with the CEO of Jump Bikes Ryan Rzepecki to learn about the company.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.