Jan Gerber ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu addresses the media on the ANC caucus's eventful year in Parliament. (Jan Gerber/News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The next ANC caucus will not repeat the mistakes it made in the Fifth Parliament, as it did when it failed the Constitution by not holding former president Jacob Zuma to account about Nkandla, ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu has vowed. Mthembu addressed the media on Thursday after the Fifth Parliament's final ANC caucus meeting, which was addressed by President Cyril Ramaphosa. He said Ramaphosa had thanked them for "work well done" and for "keeping the executive on its toes". "The president appreciated that we did not kowtow. We continued to do our work, making this Parliament an activist Parliament," Mthembu said. The question was put to Mthembu that the Constitutional Court had found that the National Assembly's handling of the Public Protector's report on Nkandla "was inconsistent with the Constitution and unlawful". PODCAST: ANC and the polls – are the party's leaders even bothered with the upcoming elections? This week on POLOTIKI, yet another ANC leader found himself in the middle of sexual assault claims, EFF leader Julius Malema takes the land question to Newcastle and we peel off another layer of the relationship between the ruling party and Bosasa. Mthembu said that, at an ANC caucus lekgotla, they had committed that "never and never again, we as an ANC caucus will do anything that is illegal". He said they would continue to hold the executive to account. 'We are not an ostrich' "Of course, we are just human. We have committed errors. A commitment we make is that we will not commit errors again." He said the ANC was the only party that admitted to its mistakes. "You know, we are not an ostrich," Mthembu said. "With that bioscope, we should not have done that," he said in reference to the bizarre video in which a sweating former police minister Nathi Nhleko tried to convince South Africans that the swimming pool at Zuma's house in Nkandla was, in fact, a "firepool", and therefore a necessary security measure. Nhleko is currently an ANC backbencher. He said the mistakes they had made in this term had "laid the basis for the next ANC caucus to say no". "History will continue to judge us harshly if we cannot learn lessons from wrongdoing." Mthembu said they had refused to do many things since the Nkandla matter. "We won't tell you what those are!" he added, with a smile. 'When we are worried, we get to work' Mthembu also admitted that the ANC caucus was concerned by recent polling results, but said it would galvanise the party to work harder. He remains confident that they would be back as the governing party after May 8. "There is no way we cannot be worried," Mthembu said. "When we are worried, we even forget about our factions. When we are worried, we get to work." He said the ANC's visibility on the ground was only starting to kick in now. "When ANC visibility is in full force, we know polling will reflect this gigantic movement." Asked why Zuma still campaigned for the ANC, Mthembu said the former president was a member of the party in good standing and hadn't been found guilty of anything. "In renewing an organisation, we shouldn't be above the rules of natural justice." * The ANC said in a statement on Thursday evening that it has noted the results of the Institute of Race Relations report suggesting the party may lose ground during the forthcoming elections. "The only poll the ANC places reliance on is the one scheduled for 8 May 2019," the party said."Our engagements with ordinary voters on a day to day basis, supported by our own internal polling and by-elections provide an important dipstick of our own support.  We particularly place a premium on outcomes of by-elections which have consistently demonstrated the confidence our people continue to have on the ANC." More on the IRR poll here: ANC has lost some support ahead of elections - latest IRR poll  WATCH: 'Pay back the money' - MP's jeer at EFF's Floyd Shivambu in ironic turn of events EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu found himself on the receiving end of MP's jeering in Parliament on Tuesday, when he was heckled to "pay back the money" during a debate on the VBS Mutual Bank scandal. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. Outa, ANCGP and civil society groups march to union buildings against etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. Thousands marched through the streets of Tshwane on Friday morning. WATCH: 'Give me a tender' - sings satirical 'Elvis' on Bosasa scandal The much-talked about Bosasa scandal has gripped South Africa over the past week since former chief-operating officer Angelo Agrizzi blew the whistle on bribery and corruption. Inside the ANC's Bosasa election war room Bosasa sponsored these war rooms for the past three elections for the ANC, at an estimated cost of R2-million per election. WATCH: Armed local farmer walks into demonstration in Greyton Western Cape police are probing an incident involving a man who was caught on camera on Monday, wielding a firearm during a demonstration in Greyton. WATCH: ANC mourns the passing of Mendi Msimang - 'A giant tree has fallen' ANC pays tribute to struggle stalwart and its former treasurer-general Mendi Msimang following his passing at the age of 78. WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. WATCH: 'We are not fighting the ANC' - Mahumapelo ahead of court appearance Former ANC North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo addresses supporters before fighting the NEC decision to disband his PEC at the South Gauteng High Court. WATCH: Police clash with marchers at ANC demonstration A scuffle ensued between a group wearing Sanco t-shirts and police after fireworks was allegedly fired during an ANC march on Friday to Premier David Makhura's office demanding service delivery. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. WATCH: SS Mendi memorial site does not depict enormity of the tragedy -  Cyril Ramaphosa The South African National Defence Force celebrated Armed Forces Day 2019 on Thursday in Cape Town
The SANDF also honoured the bravery of sons and daughters of our country who lost their lives in the fateful 1917 sinking of the SS Mendi. WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. WATCH: Damage to 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard a criminal act – DA The DA has called the damage inflicted on its newly unveiled 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, a 'criminal act'. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). WATCH: Singing in chamber as resolution that Constitution be amended is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. WATCH: Khabisi Mosunkutu remembered at emotional memorial service The memorial service of ANC stalwart Khabisi Mosunkutu was held on Friday at Pimville,Soweto. The 69-year-old former MEC passed away on Monday after battling with his health for some time. WATCH: Mbalula willing to testify at #StateCaptureInquiry Fikile Mbalula on Thursday said he is ready to testify at the state capture inquiry. Zuma on land: Less debate, more nationalisation Former President Jacob Zuma said there is too much debate about land expropriation without compensation to his liking, and suggested that land should be nationalised. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma case postponed, Jacob Zuma, BLF show support Duduzane Zuma appeared briefly in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Friday. WATCH: ANC paints Joburg yellow demanding service delivery Hundreds of ANC members from greater Joburg – in collaboration with alliance partners Sanco, SACP and Cosatu – are marching to the offices of Mayor Herman Mashaba, Premier David Makhura and Eskom to hand over memorandums demanding service delivery PARODY: Jacob Zuma sings Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word The closest SA may get to an apology from Jacob Zuma, is this parody of the president singing Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word. WATCH: 'It's me, former president Jacob Zuma' - Zuma joins social media Former president Jacob Zuma says he has decided to "move with times" and join various social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. WATCH: Jacob Zuma arrives at court to support son Duduzane Former president Jacob Zuma arrived at the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday show support for his son Duduzane, who has been charged with two counts of culpable homicide. WATCH: Nugent commission deviated from original mandate says Moyane's lawyer Former president Jacob Zuma has entered the fray over the firing of South African Revenue Service (SARS) commissioner Tom Moyane, saying Judge Robert Nugent was not asked to deal with the individual contracts of employees at SARS. LAND REFORM: The exact moment resolution to amend Constitution is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.