Riaan Grobler Marelize Horn.  (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Marelize Horn, 19, the Namibian woman who rode her bicycle into rugby posts in a video that has been going viral, has described herself as "'n ongeluksvoël" (accident prone) who falls down almost every day. "My mum Heidi says: 'My fok, Marelize' to me almost every day! I fall off things, walk into things - it's insane how clumsy I am," Marelize told News24 on Friday. READ: 'My f*k, Marelize...' - reaction to girl riding bike into rugby posts has people in stitches Horn expressed shock at the huge reaction to the video. "I am in shock! I keep calling my mother to ask her if this is all a dream!" In the video, Marelize rides her bicycle on the rugby field at Affies Park in Windhoek. She rides in a circular motion and then heads straight for the rugby posts, before crashing right into them. Her mother then exclaims in Afrikaans: "My fok, Marelize...", before starting to walk toward her. According to Marelize, the reaction has been overwhelming. "There is already a T-shirt with the phrase available!" On Saturday at around 10:30, Horn was practising riding a bicycle. "I know this sounds strange, but I am finally learning to ride the bicycle at the age of 19." She says she and her mum chose to ride on the sports grounds because, if she fell, she would not hurt herself too badly on the lush lawn. "My mum made a video of me riding so that we could watch it afterward to pick up on any mistakes that I made."  According to Horn, she was riding along nicely until she started to approach the rugby poles. "I wanted to turn right but the bike just kept going to the left. I had no control over the thing. I then crashed into the pole." Although she was bruised "all over", she told News24 she was not badly injured and had taken to riding the bicycle again. "I actually have many videos where I ride the bicycle perfectly," she said. Apart from the now famous phrase "My fok, Marelize", Heidi's first response after the fall was, "Is the bike okay?" Marelize says it was a borrowed bicycle and Heidi was concerned about possible damage. "The main reason for learning to ride the bicycle is because I will be moving to the Netherlands later this year to work as an au pair, so I will need to get around." For now, Horn is fielding calls from radio stations and other media after becoming an overnight sensation. "It's unbelievable - it's almost too much to take in," Horn told News24.  The 'My fok, Marelize' T-shirt. (Supplied.   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Cape Town bicycle shop looted by rowdy revellers Festivities in the Cape Town CBD turned to looting, with one group causing damages of nearly R170 000 in mere minutes.

Rook Cycles in Long Street has shared CCTV footage of the looting on their Facebook page. Officials and commuters react after train crash Officials and commuters respond with calls for caution and patience on the roadways following the deadly crash of two commuter trains into a car that had driven around lowered crossing gates and onto the tracks. Tour de France 2021: Copenhagen to host start of world's biggest bike race The world’s best city for cycling will host the start of the planet’s biggest bike race, it was confirmed today. How to destroy your bike in 10 seconds! Phone footage shows a man revving a motorbike to attempt a wheelie. Lagos BMX crews 'like family' Riding BMX bikes keeps young kids from the ghetto out of trouble, says Nigerian rider Starboy. When you use the wrong breaks... A man riding a mountain bike fails when using the breaks. Who says you shouldn't play with your food? A creative stay-at-home dad has been turning vegetables into musical instruments.  The inventive farther also managed to utilise other things found in the kitchen. He has successfully transformed a broom, a brick and bicycle parts into musical ins... Ishaan Khattar trolled for riding bike with headphones on Dhadak actor Ishaan Khattar, get trolled recently for wearing headphones while riding bicycle on Mumbai roads. Ugandan business banks on bamboo bikes Buying an imported high-quality bicycle in East Africa can be prohibitively expensive. So, a Ugandan company has decieded to use a local, more natural material, to create affordable frames. This dragon-shaped bicycle is made of 22,000 ICE CREAM STICKS A dragon-shaped bicycle made of ice cream sticks was unveiled by its creator Sun Chao in Kaiyuan City. The bike is made out of 22,000 ice cream sticks, and weighs 20.5 kg (45 lbs). It is capable of spitting fire, spraying mist, and can be illumina... Fail: man tries to steal bike from police station Ignoring a big sign and a surveillance camera, a man attempts to steal a bicycle from outside an Oregon police station.  He doesn't get very far. Steve Carell hit by car while riding his bike Steve Carell was just left pretty shaken up after a car hit him while he was out riding his bike. How Electric Scooters Could Reshape Cities with Caen Contee (Lime) | Disrupt Berlin 2018 Lime has been rolling out its electric scooters across Europe. As European cities are slowly evolving to make it easier to use a bike instead of a car, electric scooters foster a whole new set of questions. Should cities adapt to scooters or shoul... IKEA is having a rethink, and it's proving costly IKEA Group said on Wednesday large investments in improving its online offering, delivery services and in opening new smaller city centre stores to meet changing shopping habits pulled its full-year profits down 26 percent. Turning 107 in style - celebrating with a cycle ride What better way to spend your 107th birthday than with a bike ride? Senior cyclist Robert Marchand blew out his birthday candles after cycling around 15km on a green track in Ardèche, in the south west of France, surrounded by supporters. Although... Salman rides bicycle with Arunachal Pradesh CM Pema Khandu Bollywood superstar Salman Khan yesterday, opened the 6th edition of Adventure at Mechuka festival in presence of Chief Minister Pema Khandu and MoS Home Kiren Rijiju amidst great fanfare.The Bollywood superstar took part in the 10km bicycle ride ... Mind the bushes little boy! A young boy riding a bicycle crashes into a bush Pokemon grandpa's 15-phone rig may catch 'em all Taiwanese pensioner Chen San-yuan, aka Pokemon grandpa, has gone viral on the internet for attaching 15 phones to his bicycle to "catch 'em all." Megan Revell reports. Always look left! A bike rider pulls out in front of a car which crashes into him. Bicycle comeback in Beijing? Beijing was once filled with bicycles. But as prosperity grew, those who could swapped their bikes for automobiles. Now bike-share systems have hit the scene. Will two-wheeled transportation soon rule the roads in China's capital once again? Bike rider epic fail! A cyclist misjudges a large puddle and goes headfirst over the handlebars. The RadMini By Rad Power Bike Is Hefty Yet Rad! Tito Hamze reviews the Radmini Electric Folding Fat bike by Rad Power Bikes. This thing is a heavy beast but one hell of a smooth ride. Is this the bicycle of the future? We’ve all heard of autonomous cars…but what about bikes? Students at Tsinghua University in China have developed a remote-controlled self-driving bicycle that can even balance by itself. Man shot by cyclist in Belle Vale A 27-year-old man dies after being shot by a gunman riding a push bike in Belle Vale, Liverpool. Salman makes FUN of Aamir's 'Jo Jeeta Wohi Sikandar' Superstar Salman Khan attended a curtain-raiser event for the second edition of an MTB Arunachal Mountain Bicycle Race along with Union Minister of State for Home Kiren Rijiju on Thursday. While interacting with the media talking about Aamir Khan'... Cars dangerously passing cyclists highlighted in VR film A virtual reality film has been made to show drivers a close pass from a cyclist's perspective.

The footage provides a 360-degree view of what happens when a vehicle overtaking a bike does not leave enough room. Woman Breaks World Bicycling Land Speed Record A woman has broken the paced bicycle land speed record. Mountain Biking Trails Travel with Miles Rowland from World Nomads as he explores Trinidad & Tobago, navigating the landscape by mountain bike, and discovering the tropical nature and wildlife of the Caribbean. Kenyan president labels Boris Johnson 'the bicycle guy' Former foreign secretary Boris Johnson was labelled "the bicycle guy" as the Kenyan president struggled to recall his name. Suspect in doctor’s killing commits suicide Police say Joseph Pappas, the man suspected of murdering a prominent Houston doctor, fatally shot himself in the head in front of two officers on Friday as they attempted to arrest him. Senegalese student pedals to change people's perception of Africa Moustapha Ndiaye, a Senegalese student of Islamic studies in Turkey, sets off on a journey cycling across Turkey with his bike named 'Kusti' to change people's perception of Africa. Having fun on a treadmill Young man riding bicycle on treadmill. The man travelling the world on a bamboo bicycle Yakuza Solo hopes his bamboo bicycle will make the world aware of his home state of Nagaland. The man travelling the world on a bamboo bicycle Yakuza Solo hopes his bamboo bicycle will make the world aware of his home state of Nagaland. Froome to ride Tour despite owners trying to bar him, says wife Chris Frrome's wide says he will race in the Tour de France despite media stories stating organisers want him barred over a doping probe. Fixing bikes in Marrakech Jobs for young people are scarce in Morocco. Many think they stand a better chance of a decent future in Europe. Those with marketable skills are more likely to thrive at home. A project in Marrakech trains bicycle mechanics and tour guides. Take a look at Peugeot's new fold-out electric bicycle The new Peugeot Ef01 electric bike integrates perfectly into the back of the new 5008 SUV. 
The bike has been designed to be used for the 'last mile' of a commute - when drivers find it the hardest to find a parking space. Velo Liberte Paris' ambitious Velo Liberte bike initiative encourages residents to forgo cars for bikes and public transportation. In the process, the programme has fostered a unique popular culture, complete with its own language, jokes and pick-up lines. Amazing tricks on old style bike WS Penny Farthing bicycle stunt. New bicycle tyre with zip on all-terrain skins A bicycle tyre that lets you zip on skins to suit riding surface has launched. Uber jumps into Europe's crowded bike-sharing market Uber, the ride-hailing company which has been banned from many European cities, is about to launch its JUMP electric bicycle sharing service in Germany as it diversifies and seeks to build bridges with local authorities. Bike Fail A mountain biker goes over the handlebars after failing to complete a jump. A $3700 e-bike?! The Trek supper comThe Trek supper commuter + 7 is an electric bike with pedal assist that maxes out at 25mph. With a range of up to 50 miles on one battery charge and an interchangeable battery, this may be the solution for those long commutes. Watch out the bushes kid! Little boy riding a bicycle crashes into a bush. BMX rider crashes attempting 3.4 metre jump Watch BMX rider Scott Hamlin crash whilst trying to jump over a 3.4 metre high bar on Sky TV's Revolution. Winnipeg couple seeks caregiver for epic U.S. bicycle trip Jill Oakes has turned to Kijiji to find a caregiver to help with her husband's Parkinson's disease symptoms on a four-month bicycle trip from Winnipeg through the U.S. Rick Riewe says it will be the "trip of a lifetime." When left with a penny-farthing bicycle and nothing else to do at work... It's got to be time for stunt. Chargin' at San Francisco Hills with Electric Jump Bikes Jump Bikes is a newer bike share program that launched in San Francisco. They use electric assist bikes so you can reach speeds up to 20mph. I rode around the city with the CEO of Jump Bikes Ryan Rzepecki to learn about the company. New footage shows devastation of Liverpool car park blaze New footage shows the extent of the fire that scorched a car park in Kings Dock in Liverpool. A Land Rover burst into flames on Sunday before turning the building into an inferno.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.