Canny Maphanga Kulani Mathebula. (Sesona Ngqakamba,  News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Gauteng police have made a breakthrough and arrested two more suspects in the Mondeor High School stabbing in the early hours of Thursday morning, bringing the number of arrested suspects to three. "The suspects were arrested in Soweto and Naturena ages both 15 years old, which brings the total number of the arrested suspects to three within 24 hours," Captain Kay Makhubele confirmed in a statement on Thursday. This comes after Grade 11 pupil Kulani Mathebula was stabbed to death on his way to school on Wednesday morning. Police on Wednesday formed a team of detectives who followed up the information from the scene, which led them to another school in Mondeor where one 13-year-old suspect attends.  The teenager was arrested in the afternoon. The three suspects are expected to appear in court on Friday. READ: Mondeor High School pupil stabbed to death near school "The deceased, who was on his way to school, was attacked and stabbed to death by three other school boys from a nearby school in the area," said Makhubele. ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring said paramedics found the boy with a stab wound to the chest and no signs of life. He said CPR was immediately initiated to try revive the patient. "Unfortunately, after some time, no vital signs returned, and he was declared dead by another service," Meiring said. His mother, Dumi Chauke, had cried "I want my son" as pathology services removed his body from a patch of grass, situated just 10 minutes away from the school. Mathebula was her only child. READ: 'I want my son' - mother of pupil who was stabbed to death while walking to school Mondeor High School principal Vangelia Nicolaou was among the first at the scene. She said that, when she arrived, Mathebula was still breathing and his eyes were open. Next to him, lay his blazer, bags and shoes. Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi, who visited the school following the stabbing, said he was deeply shocked and saddened. "It is saddening that instead of giving report cards I will be giving a death certificate to these parents. We take this time to send our heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and the school community of the said learner, during this time of grief," he said. Pupils were being provided with counselling.  WATCH: Support for Sans Souci teacher following court appearance The teacher charged with the assault of a Sans Souci Girls High School pupil, as well as the teenager she slapped, made their first appearances in the Wynberg Magistrate's Court on Wednesday. WATCH: Khayelitsha school bids to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place Chairperson of Enkanini Primary's School Governing Body Andile Lili shows what the school is doing in a bid to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place at the school in Khayelitsha Sans Souci Girls' High School 'n Video waarop leerlinge van die Sans Souci Girls' High School die onderwyseres Clarissa Venter, wat Dinsdag een van hul medeleerlinge geklap het, ondersteun, het Donderdag op sosiale media versprei. WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. WATCH: Holy Cross primary in Cape Town on fire Firefighters were called out to Holy Cross RC Primary School in the Cape Town CBD after plumes of smoke were seen emanating from the premises. WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. WATCH: Grief, anger as Durban community mourns teenagers killed by taxi Grief-stricken Newlands East residents became enraged on Wednesday after a minibus taxi ran into four secondary school pupils in Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, killing three.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.