Pelane Phakgadi PHOTO: Getty Images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Age is not a barrier when it comes to dealing with crime, and that was proven by a 64-year-old Port Elizabeth man who chased after two thieves and apprehended one of them. Two robbers are believed to have pointed a firearm at a shopkeeper at a store in Bethelsdorp and stole cigarettes, cash and a cellphone before making a run. But the 64-year-old man, who witnessed the incident, gave chase. Read: Woman who lied about ‘stolen cellphone’ arrested Police spokesperson Colonel Priscilla Naidu said that "an elderly man residing nearby witnessed the suspects running from the shop and chased after them. He apprehended a 16-year-old teenager. The cigarettes, a toy gun and some cash was recovered". "The youth will be detained on a charge of business robbery and will appear in court soon," added Naidu. Naidu said that the Mount Road Cluster Commander Major General Thembisile Patekile commended the elderly man for his vigilance and brave stance against the suspects. "As a community, we need to look out for each other and stand together against crime and criminals within our communities," commented Patekile. WATCH: Flash robbery at Krugersdorp, South Africa, supermarket A Krugersdorp supermarket was robbed of an undisclosed amount of money over the weekend. WATCH: Robbers make off with woman's phone, bag as she walks in Muizenberg SAPS confirmed that a case of robbery was reported at Muizenberg police station on Tuesday 19 February 2019. The incident allegedly occurred on 9 February at approximately 07:40. WATCH: CCTV footage of brazen robbery at Durban curry restaurant The Copper Chimney at the Chatsworth Centre, near Durban, was stormed and robbed by four men as the restaurant was closing up on Sunday night, East Coast Radio (ECR) reported. WATCH: Brazen robbery in Hillbrow leaves two security officers dead Two security officers were shot and killed during a robbery in Hillbrow on Monday night. WATCH: Suspects run for cover after heavy fire from security officers disrupts armed robbery Two Chinese nationals and their driver were robbed of R23 000 along the M2 near the Main Reef Road exit in Johannesburg on Tuesday. WATCH: Bogus police rob Nelspruit jewellery store Police are searching for a group of men who robbed a jewellery store at I'langa Mall in Nelspruit on Monday. WATCH: Armed thieves attack cash-in-transit guards in Krugersdorp A money truck was attacked by armed thieves after guards were collecting money from a filling station in Kagiso on Monday. WATCH: Joburg security guard wounded in shootout with armed robbery suspects A security guard was shot and wounded as he investigated a suspected business robbery on the corner of Prichard and Mooi Streets in Johannesburg last Saturday afternoon. WATCH: Motorist escapes hijacking, reverses into assailants' car Police are on the hunt for four men who were involved in a botched hijacking in the north of Johannesburg, last week. WATCH: Would-be robber shot dead outside Limpopo mall A would-be bag thief was shot and killed in the parking lot of a Polokwane mall; this after the owner of the bag gave chase, pointed a firearm at the assailant and pulled the trigger. WATCH: Criminal snatches phone out of man's shirt pocket at restaurant A couple enjoying late afternoon lattes were left phone-less at the hands of a brash thief on Wednesday. 

Outdoor sections of restaurants have become hotspots for criminals to snag people's possessions.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.