DA leader Mmusi Maimane has accused President Cyril Ramaphosa of "obfuscating the truth" and not playing "open cards" when explaining the full extent of the crisis at Eskom. The power utility enforced Stage 4 load shedding for the better part of a week and only on Friday it scaled down to Stage 2, saying signs were encouraging. In a letter addressed to the president, Maimane said: "A total collapse now seems possible, but it is not inevitable. The time for manufactured 'shock' and simple apologies is now over. The nation urgently requires answers, and it is high time you as president of the Republic provide such answers. It is becoming clear that the country has been misinformed as to the extent of this crisis." "The damage being inflicted on our economy and its basic infrastructure is immeasurable," Maimane added. WATCH: South African farmers have built the first floating solar park in Africa Western Cape farmers have built Africa's first commercial floating solar park – that now let's them tackle load shedding and drought. They say it's a better investment than a new orchard. "Eskom's operations have ground to a halt and millions of jobs and livelihoods are at now stake. "This was inevitable given the extent of mismanagement, corruption and bad policy that Eskom has been subjected to over the past two decades." The leader of the opposition also implored Ramaphosa to come clean about the debt Eskom owed. "What is the total amount of debt owed by Eskom and what is the timeline on this debt being due to creditors. How much foreign denominated debt is due by Eskom in the next two months?" In addition, he wants Ramaphosa to explain whether the government had a strategy to mitigate the current damage power outages caused to infrastructure. He said the president would do well to heed lessons from how the DA managed and overcame the water crisis in the Western Cape by being "honest" and making "tough and unpopular choices". Ramaphosa, says Maimane, ought to follow suit. "He should place the national interest ahead of his own political interests and the interests of the ANC, and come clean." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter