Jenni Evans The aftermath of a fatal crash between Robertson and Ashton (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Two construction workers were killed when a truck crashed into a construction vehicle during roadworks in the Western Cape on Wednesday night, the province's traffic chief Kenny Africa said. "Late last night just before 12 o'clock between Ashton and Robertson, a truck plunged into a construction vehicle and also killed two road workers," Africa said on Thursday. They were apparently hit by the truck while setting out signs. The devastation at the scene on the R60 showed a truck upside down, and another on top of some of the equipment used for the road works. READ: Two men die in Cape Town road construction accident The road was closed for a long period to enable emergency workers to attend to the tragedy, and for other services to clear the road. It was reopened again on Thursday morning. Further information on the construction workers was not immediately available. A long-term programme of road upgrades has been underway on routes in the region. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. WATCH: Four bus crashes in one day leave 150 injured, two dead in KZN Helicopter footage of a bus that crashed into a home in Tongaat, KwaZulu-Natal has emerged online.

According to the KZN emergency medical services, over 150 people suffered serious to moderate injuries in three other incidents in the province. WATCH: Ferrari accident on the N2 Cape Town.mp4 Rion from CF towing  was 1st person on  the scene said the driver lost control when he looked down and the next thing he hit the highway concrete on the N2 Airport turn off. WATCH: Limpopo accident leaves 26 dead, among them 2 children Two children are among the 26 people who died in a horror multi-vehicle collision on the N1 in Mookgopong outside Modimolle, Limpopo, on Friday.

Four people survived the crash and were taken to various hospitals for medical treatment. WATCH: Taxi collision leaves 1 dead in Ballito One person has been killed following a collision between a taxi and a light vehicle in Ballito on Saturday afternoon. Watch.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.