It's D-Day for parents in the Western Cape as the provincial education department warns that school admissions for 2020 are closing. "Parents had a whole month in which to prioritise their children's applications for 2020," said Education MEC Debbie Schäfer. She said enrolment was especially important for pupils applying for admission into Grades R,1 and 8. "This year, we piloted an online admissions system and while the system came with some minor hiccups, I am pleased with the overall response." The online admissions system processed 192 481 applications since opening on February 15. "These figures are set to increase significantly as many parents rush to complete their applications today. The online system has sent a text message and email to those parents who did not complete their applications, reminding them to complete their applications before the deadline." The department had also taken out radio ad campaigns to remind parents about the deadline. Schäfer said the department officials would continue helping those parents who failed to enrol their children on time. Parents would be able to submit applications on the system after March 15 but it would be marked as late. Schäfer also said it was important for the department to know how many applications had been received so it could plan in advance where additional resources, such as infrastructure and teachers, were required. "We also want to assist as many parents as possible whose children do not get accepted during this period, to find a school. Schools are to inform parents of the outcome of their applications by 10 May 2019." Parents have 10 days, by May 20, to confirm acceptance at the school of their choice or decline other options that have been accepted. The department asked parents to note that: Parents who are unsure about which district to approach, can call the department's call centre on 0861 923 322. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  