Tammy Petersen WATCH: Hijackers strike at Mitchells Plain petrol station Police are investigating a case of carjacking after two women were highjacked in Mitchells Plain on Friday. Stop and drop - this is the lesson a Mitchells Plain father says he has taught his children for when gunshots start ringing out. The loud bangs have become a familiar sound in the suburb of Lentegeur, he explains. "It's quiet today. But it can change in a few minutes," the man insists, clicking his fingers. "Look at the people who live here. They walk faster so that they can get home quicker. Because one minute all is well in the streets; the next, you see a body on the pavement." WATCH: Spinning car that hit pedestrian found Police are investigating a case of carjacking after two women were highjacked in Mitchells Plain on Friday. READ: It's 'war' on the Cape Flats as gang-related death toll mounts Since February 1, 25 people have been killed in gang-related murders in Mitchells Plain alone, Lentegeur Community Policing Forum chairperson Byron de Villiers told News24. Body count The suspected turf war - which has rocked neighbourhoods such as Lentegeur, Woodlands, Eastridge, Tafelsig, Beacon Valley and Portlands - flared up at the end of January between the Fancy Boys, Junior Cisko Yakkies, Junior Mafias and the Ghetto Kids. "It's a genocide," De Villiers insists. Less than 20km away, Bonteheuwel is equally volatile, but it has a lower body count. Seventeen people have been killed since January 1. Western Cape Community Safety MEC Alan Winde wrote to Minister of Police Bheki Cele this week, asking him to intervene in gang-ravaged areas by deploying the army. His request was turned down. In a statement, he said Cele's response to his letter was: "The crime situation is handled by the South African Police Service. There is no need for the SANDF to be deployed in the Western Cape, the current interventions are yielding positive results." Winde believes the deployment would also free up police and assist them to "do investigations and make arrests", while acting as a peace-keeping force. "We know there are 10 murders and 10 attempted murders a day in our province; we know that 7 out of the top 10 murder stations are in the Western Cape. If this is not horrific enough to move the minister to respond to the cry of the people, nothing is," Winde said. 'Hard-handed approach' De Villiers, however, said he understood the difficulty in deploying the army to intervene in community safety as the matter had been raised with the minister during an anti-crime engagement in 2018. "That's not what they're there for. The army has a hard-handed approach. We need a force that considers the community," he said. "Deploying the army means there is a greater chance of innocent people losing their lives." Cele previously told the media that soldiers were not trained in policing, but for military situations. The launch of the Anti-Gang Unit and Operation Thunder - through which members from specialised units from other provinces will be brought in to deal with crime in the Western Cape - resulted in a somewhat quiet period from August into the festive season, De Villiers said. But gun-wielding gangsters have regrouped, he said, making the authorities' actions responsive and not pro-active. "What we need is more visible policing," he insisted, pointing out that the two police stations serving Mitchells Plain were understaffed while the "good members" were overworked. Winde said he would engage with his department's legal team for advice on steps which can be taken, including the option of declaring an inter-governmental dispute "to at a bare minimum, compel Minister Cele to immediately address our under-resourcing in the province". KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Pulwama terror attack Angry BTown condemns this cowardly act Terror attack in which 43 Central Reserve Police Force CRPF troopers were killed in Jammu and Kashmirs Pulwama district on Thursday terming it a cowardly act Filmstars like Akshay Kumar Priyanka Chopra Ranveer Singh and Abhishek Bachchan took to t... 16 Labor MPs exonerated in Red Shirts affair - 2 still under investigation DC Shane Patton of the Victoria Police says that 16 Labor MPs have been exonerated for their role in the Red Shirts affair, but that two former Labor MPs are still under investigation. Bond set for man accused of shooting Ohio deputies An Ohio prosecutor says he will seek the death penalty in the case against a man accused of killing a sheriff's deputy and wounding another officer in an "ambush" attack during a standoff on Sunday. 78,000 x 550? This boy knows the answer Sibahle Zwane is only 10, but his maths skills have made him an internet sensation in South Africa. 1.3 tonnes of ephedrine seized by AFP working with Chinese law enforcement The Australian Federal Police and Border Force have seized 1,300 kilograms of the drug precursor ephedrine during an investigation into an organised crime syndicate. AFP says that with the Mexican meth seizure, Victoria's yearly share of ice consu... ‘Gilets jaunes' hold 12th weekend of protests, denounce police violence "Gilet jaune” (yellow vest) protesters took to the streets on Saturday for another weekend of anti-government action, as they paid homage to those injured by police in previous demonstrations. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Showbiz Minute: Smollett, Westwood, US Box Office Chicago police seeking follow-up interview with Jessie Smollett; Vivienne Westwood brings politics to London catwalk; "Alita: Battle Angel" tops U.S. box office. Here are 7 things you may not have known about Babes Wodumo She's one of the most popular female artists in South Africa at the moment, but how well do you actually know Babes Wodumo? (Photos: Gallo Images) Who should own South Africa's land? Plans to redistribute land from white farmers to landless blacks are raising deep feelings. Here's why. Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. South Africa's contestant is crowned Miss Universe South Africa's Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters has been crowned Miss Universe. The 22-year-old, who recently earned a business management degree, beat 92 other women from around the world. South Africa pledges $4.9 bln Eskom bailout South Africa will give state power utility Eskom 69 billion rand ($4.9 billion) over three years, Finance Minister Tito Mboweni said while delivering the key part of the country's budget on Wednesday. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Newborn baby girl pulled out of South African storm drain Emergency services were called after cries were heard coming from the drain in Newlands East, near Durban in South Africa. Following a three-hour rescue operation, police are now investigating how the baby got there in the first place. Chicago Police Chief defends Jussie Smollett case Chicago police chief Eddie Johnson is defending the handling of Jussie Smollett's criminal case, insisting investigators have "a lot more evidence" to prove he allegedly staged his own attack. Eleven taxi drivers shot dead in South Africa Gunmen shot dead 11 taxi drivers returning to Johannesburg from the funeral of a colleague in Kwa-Zulu Natal. Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine. The Age Of Big Data This is the Age of Big Data. From police using an algorithm to predict crime, to a mobile phone app that knows that you are unwell, to the man whose hedge fund uses cosmologists, code breakers and particle physicists. It's happening now. Mass powercuts in South Africa, sabotage denied South Africa has suffered a third day of powercuts caused by major problems at the main energy supplier Eskom. The government has only recently announced plans to split the company up. How to speak 'Black Panther' The official language of Wakanda is isiXhosa - also spoken in parts of South Africa South Africa: Muti - a threat to nature In order to meet the huge demand for the traditional remedies known as 'muti', plants in South Africa are being harvested on a scale that is no longer sustainable. The pepper-bark tree, for example, is widely used, even though it is endangered. South Africa's venomous and most dangerous spiders Do you know how to spot a potentially dangerous spider? Learn about South Africa's venomous spiders and how to protect your family. Woman says she aided man charged in fiance's death A woman admitted Friday that she helped thwart an investigation into the disappearance of a Colorado woman who authorities believe was killed by her fiance, but her motive and the nature of her relationship with the suspect remains a mystery. Reporter - Police Violence in the Slums of Nairobi Nineteen-year-old Brian was shot dead in broad daylight in the Kayole slum in Kenya. The Kenyan police are killing suspected criminals in an underground war against crimes - as many as 3,000 in the last year. Police hunt Italian Job-style shopping centre raiders Police have likened CCTV footage of thieves driving through a shopping centre to a scene out of 1960s crime caper The Italian Job.

The raiders smashed their way into the Forum Shopping Centre in Wallsend, North Tyneside, at around 4.10am on Janua... Jussie Smollett charged with faking racist attack Actor Jussie Smollett is charged with lying to police after claiming he was attacked and beaten by two masked men. Chicago police are now seeking his arrest. WATCH: Spinning car that hit pedestrian found Police are investigating a case of carjacking after two women were highjacked in Mitchells Plain on Friday. WATCH LIVE: Jason Rohde sentencing procedures get underway Convicted murderer Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings will get underway in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday December 5. WATCH: Closing arguments in Rohde trial - was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband Jason violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? Teenagers get life sentences for fatal Valentine's Day attack on 17-year-old A gang of teenagers have been handed life sentences for murdering a 17-year-old boy who was mown down in a stolen BMW then stabbed 15 times in a Valentine's Day attack.

Lord Promise Nkenda was walking along the pavement in Newham, east London, wh... NSW child groomed online and assaulted in under 24 hours NSW Police Detective Inspector Mick Haddow speaking to media in Sydney about charges against a man over the sexual assault of a teenage boy on Sydney’s northern beaches. The 34-year-old man allegedly went to the home of a 13-year-old boy in Killarney Heights on Wednesday, a day after the pair met on social media, and sexually assaulted the boy. Haddow says the grooming happened in the space of a day and warns parents of the dangers of online communications. He adds the crime has horrendous impacts on the child and his family. U.S. communities rethink Taser use as death toll rises Communities across the U.S. are rethinking police use of Tasers amid a rising death toll. DOCUMENTARY | News24 takes you inside the cult that captured an Eastern Cape community News24 sent a team of journalists to Ngcobo in the wake of deadly shootings between police and members of a confirmed cult. The team spoke to the cult leaders, families of victims, law enforcement and cult experts to piece together the story. Simon Cowell loves TV detective show Columbo Simon Cowell has revealed he has become obsessed with watching TV crime show 'Columbo', which starred Peter Falk as a homicide detective with the Los Angeles Police Department. Texas girl with cancer sworn in as police officer A 6-year-old Houston-area girl who's battling cancer has had her dream come true of being sworn in as a Texas police officer. Albuquerque police investigate blast near mall Police say one person is dead after an unidentified explosion in an alley behind a strip mall in Albuquerque. They say businesses in the area were evacuated after the explosion Monday afternoon. No other injuries have been reported. AP Top Stories February 13 Here's the latest for Wednesday February 13th: Trump not happy with border security plan; Friendly fire kills NYC police detective; China trade talks underway ahead of possible tariff hike; Joaquin 'El Chapo' Guzman convicted. 50 Cent seeking legal advice after learning New York Cop told detectives to shoot him on sight 50 Cent is reportedly considering legal action after learning he was allegedly targeted by a New York Police Department boss. India Mourns its martyrs Families mourned the death of Central Reserve Police Force jawans martyred in Pulwama terror attack. They struggled to comprehend the loss of their family members. There were scenes of grief and despair as families awaited the mortal remains. WATCH: Three accused of murdering Mihalik appear in court The three men accused of Pete Mihalik's murder - Vuyile Maliti, Sinozokohle Biyela and Nkosinathi Khumalo - appear in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Friday 15 February 2019. US man being fired kills five co-workers, wounds five police A US man being fired from his job shot dead five co-workers at a factory on the outskirts of Chicago and wounded five police officers before being gunned down himself, in the country's latest mass shooting. Several skiers buried in Swiss avalanche Valais cantonal police confirmed on Twitter that an avalanche occurred at around 2.15pm, leaving “several people buried”. 911 calls reflect chaotic Wisconsin highway pileup A Wisconsin sheriff’s department releases video and still images as well as 911 recordings that reflect a chaotic scene during a 131-vehicle highway pileup Indonesian police apologises after using snake to extract confession from suspect Indonesian police apologised after a video circulating on social media showed officers using a snake to extract a confession from a suspect. NYC mayor: slain officer 'gave his life for us' The NYPD is mourning a detective killed by friendly fire as officers confronted a robbery suspect who turned out to be armed with a replica handgun. Mayor Bill de Blasio said Detective Brian Simonsen, 42, "gave his life for us."   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.