Tshidi Madia WATCH: Ramaphosa takes election campaign to Park Station President Cyril Ramaphosa, and Gauteng ANC officials, took to train stations across the province to encourage commuters to vote for the party in the upcoming national elections. The ANC flag is photographed. (Thapelo Maphakela, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The ANC and its top leaders took their election campaign to train stations this week and party president Cyril Ramaphosa visited Park Station in Johannesburg on Monday. Others, including secretary general Ace Magashule and party leaders Gwede Mantashe and Paul Mashatile, joined crowds of South Africans making their way to school and work. News24 joined Magashule, whose trip started at Ikwezi Station in Mfolo. On the train ride, which made seven stops, the ANC secretary general received prayers from a group of people, who held a church service in one of the coaches, while he listened to commuters' complaints about train delays and lack of safety. Magashule himself complained about the delays. He said he arrived at 05:30 but only boarded a train at 06:45. "To leave home at 04:00 and only get on a train around 07:00 makes no sense to me," said Magashule. He said it showed more trains were needed. "This is their daily experience. We are happy we are here. It's unfortunate that it's during an election campaign. We should be with our people at all times to see what affects them." Making his way through severely cramped coaches, Magashule assured commuters, some who were standing because there weren't enough seats, that the ANC would intervene. "We have no problem with you raising your issues when you point out what we've done wrong as you prepare to go vote. This is a mistake we need to fix. I will be giving the president a report. We will also talk to Prasa (the Passenger Rail Agency of SA) before the end of the week," he said. After arriving at Park Station, Magashule joined Ramaphosa, who held a mini rally at the station in the city centre. The president, who was accompanied by other ANC leaders, urged South Africans to go out in their numbers to vote in the elections, which take place in about two months. PODCAST: The fiery, smart, sharp and difficult Julius Malema AUDIO: This week on POLOTIKI, we're days away from South Africa's sixth national elections, but is the country excited? And EFF leader Julius Malema is in the headlines, is this a campaign tactic? WATCH: Alex hero saves stranded child A video of a man slowly shimmying his way across the Jukskei River to rescue a child stuck midway on a pipe has gone viral on social media. The EFF has a new song The EFF has released a Gqom song, a collaboration of Ntando Duma and Alaska. The song titled Signal, after the speech CIC Julius Malema made at the Winnie Mandela funeral in Orlando Stadium. Jesse Duarte exposes sexual harassment as endemic at Luthuli House. ANC deputy secretary general Jesse Duarte has exposed how sexual harassment is endemic at Luthuli House. WATCH: More than 170 left homeless after fire rages through Alexandra Over 100 shacks were destroyed by a fire in Alexandra north of Johannesburg on Tuesday afternoon. WATCH: Aquarium rescues ocean sunfish from Cape Town dry dock The Two Oceans Aquarium launched a rescue operation this weekend after an ocean sunfish was found trapped in the Robinson Dry Dock in the V&A Waterfront.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.