Pelane Phakgadi Students from Tshwane University. (Alex Mitchley, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Tshwane University of Technology has instructed students at all nine campuses to clear their residences as soon as possible, "for their own safety". The university resolved on Wednesday to close all academic programmes for students with immediate effect, until further notice. Student protests over unpaid meal allowances and insufficient residences flared up at TUT campuses in recent weeks, and intensified on Monday. "Since there will not be any services available on campus residences and, because management is concerned about the welfare of our students, they are therefore required to vacate residences for their own safety," TUT spokesperson Willa de Ruyter said. READ: Several TUT campuses remain closed due to protests "The safety of the students, staff and TUT property on all campuses remains management’s first priority, therefore, due to the volatility and unpredictability of the current situation, the university had no choice but to close academic activities for students, until further notice, in order to allow the situation to calm down," said De Ruyter. #TUTShutdown TUT Soshanguve SRC president Lucky Nkambule says students will not backdown until their meal allowances have been paid. (@PelaneM) pic.twitter.com/dbefzity71  She said that the institution's management would, however, continue to "engage" with the higher education department, and student financial aid, NSFAS, towards resolving the current situation. 'Knee-jerk reaction to students demands' De Ruyter said that students and stakeholders could find updates on the recovery plan on TUT’s website, once approved by Senate. DA Student Leaders were intimidated and had their rooms vandalized by members of @ANCYLhq TUT main campus branch. The level of violence and intolerance from a so called democratic party @MYANC is really sickening. pic.twitter.com/yjocPYIt4N Scheduled activities of the university, including the upcoming graduation ceremonies, will however continue. The Young Communist League (YCL) in Tshwane said that it was "perturbed by TUT management’s decision of just shutting down the university’s campuses", adding that it viewed that decision as a "knee-jerk reaction to students' demands". "The management’s attitude reinforces a view that deepened inequality and indifference towards challenges in previously disadvantaged institutions, [which] continue to be at the centre of laments of students at historically black, disadvantaged universities, and those challenges are being overlooked," said YCL secretary Kgabo Morifi. He accused university management of largely ignoring the students' calls. This is not good at all. Just last week, things were so calm at the campus. #TUTShutdown pic.twitter.com/Ckmw4aQX7l  WATCH: TUT students march to the police ministry over student death Chaos erupted on Wednesday as around 300 students marched through the Pretoria CBD protesting over the death of a student who was allegedly shot by police last week. WATCH: Conterfeit goods confiscated in by-law enforcement operation Thirteen bags of counterfeit goods valued at R700 000.00 was confiscated in Tshwane on Wednesday. WATCH: Buses burned, windows shattered in CPUT violence Vandals destroyed two buses and damaged buildings at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology's Bellville campus in the early hours of Wednesday morning. WATCH: Queuing won't guarantee university admission The University of Johannesburg is urging prospective students to register online Instead of queuing on campus. WATCH: Two police officers charged with murder of TUT student granted bail Two police officers were granted bail at the Soshanguve Magistrates Court on Tuesday. Video of UFS student cleaning up after EFF protesters has social media users at one another's throat A University of the Free State (UFS) student has unwittingly opened a virtual can of worms after a video of him cleaning up after protesters went viral. WATCH: Protesting students bring learning to a standstill at Wits The start of classes and daily administration operations were delayed at the University of the Witwatersrand on Thursday, after the student representative council (SRC) continued with protest action. WATCH: University of Limpopo, South Africa, students walk out of philosophy test University of Limpopo students this week walked out of an Educational Philosophy test.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.