Canny Maphanga Police Minister Bheki Cele.  (Adrian de Kock, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Police Minister Bheki Cele says there is no evidence that members of the South African Police Service (SAPS) will embark on strike action over long-overdue promotions. "No SAPS member has engaged in industrial action as reported in social media. "People that call for the SAPS to be involved in industrial action, they know they are breaking the law – our SAPS must not fall into that," he said at a briefing at the Gauteng police headquarters in Parktown, Johannesburg, on Thursday. This comes after the South African Policing Union (SAPU) threatened to go on a national strike on Monday. eNCA reported that SAPU president Mpho Kwinika alleged that government had reneged on promises of promotions. "Members are willing to go on strike because of what has been seen to be an unfair treatment of the police force as a whole, the employer is taking advantage of these people. You cannot have people waiting for the matter to be resolved for 15 years when those issues have to be resolved within 60 days," he said. Kwinika, who was present at Thursday's briefing, clarified that he was not aware of whether the industrial action would proceed on Monday. Decision on promotions not a 'knee-jerk reaction' "Is there going to be a strike on Monday? I don't know – but we have advised them not to. To go on strike means they are not rendering an essential service and they are not allowed to," he explained. Cele further said that although promotions were five years overdue, the police had already administered 32 053 promotions in the current financial year. "There is currently a backlog in the progression of employees from level 5 to level 7, they are long overdue. Approximately 32 053 members were promoted in the past financial year, this has never happened before. "I would like to call upon the members of the police to take the leadership into their confidence, this issue will be dealt with," Cele said. The minister emphasised that the decision to deal with the matter of promotions was not a "knee-jerk reaction" to threats of a strike but a decision that was communicated in a budget speech in Parliament in May last year. "This is the beginning not the end – we will make sure to better the lives of our SAPS [officers]. "SAPS members occupy a very special place in our heart, we value them [and] therefore I want to caution against diluting this into political battles – it is unnecessary and opportunistic," he said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. WATCH: Woman arrested after nude protest at Union Buildings A woman who staged a nude protest outside at the Union Buildings in Pretoria on Wednesday morning has been arrested. WATCH: Robbers make off with woman's phone, bag as she walks in Muizenberg SAPS confirmed that a case of robbery was reported at Muizenberg police station on Tuesday 19 February 2019. The incident allegedly occurred on 9 February at approximately 07:40. WATCH: Taxi collision leaves 1 dead in Ballito One person has been killed following a collision between a taxi and a light vehicle in Ballito on Saturday afternoon. Watch. WATCH: 30 cars destroyed and reception looted at Germiston factory On Tuesday, employees from several plastic companies protested and attacked the Gundle Plastic group in Germiston.
They allegedly barged through the gate and assaulted two workers and damaged 30 cars, of which three were set alight. WATCH: 'We have nothing' - Vredenburg residents demand better service delivery On Tuesday, residents of Vredenburg in the Western Cape – who have had enough of living in what they described as a "dump" – took to the streets with sjamboks, sticks and knobkieries to demand better service delivery. WATCH: Shady character steals designer sunglasses A thief with sticky fingers was able to steal two pairs of designer sunglasses from an optical store in Johannesburg last Friday. WATCH: Vehicles set alight during apparent housing protest in Nyanga Members of the Ocean View community in Cape Town took to the streets on Thursday to voice their frustrations at shootings and other violence in the area. WATCH: Police chopper corners home robber on N1 Motorists on the N1 south in Johannesburg, South Africa had their commute interrupted on Thursday as police flooded the motorway, to arrest a fleeing house robber. WATCH: SAPS escort pupils to matric farewell in Nyala Making an entrance is an extra bonus point when making a statement at a matric farewell. One couple in particular, turned heads when they rocked up in a police Nyala van escorted by police officers at their farewell in Newcastle over the weekend. WATCH: Flash robbery at Krugersdorp, South Africa, supermarket A Krugersdorp supermarket was robbed of an undisclosed amount of money over the weekend.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.