Duncan Alfreds Lion walks in the veld. (File photo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The search for a missing lion from a Karoo park is set to step up a gear as a company deploys a high-tech helicopter. On February 15, a male lion went missing from the Karoo National Park near Beaufort West and search and tracker teams have been trying to find the animal for weeks in difficult terrain. READ: Fresh spoor 60km from Karoo National Park brings new hope of finding lion lost for 2 weeks On Friday, Bidvest Protea Coin announced that it was deploying its helicopter, which is ideally suited for tracking. "We have one of only two choppers in the country fitted with forward-looking infrared (FLIR), or thermal imaging infrared cameras, which allows us to pick up heat signatures on the ground over a radius of 10km when flying at night," said company chief operations officer Waal de Waal. Four team members from Gauteng left on Friday to help search for the lion. Fresh kill The lion, estimated to be between 2 and 4 years old, has left trackers precious few clues as to its whereabouts. READ: Lost Karoo lion evades rangers, but officials appeal for calm It is believed to have killed an eland several days ago and rangers have not found evidence of a fresh kill. This is a concern as the rangers are tracking the animal by foot because the terrain makes it difficult for a vehicle to enter. "No other kill has been found and it should be very hungry by now. The last kill was last week," Reynold "Rey T" Thakhuli, SANParks general manager for Media, PR & Stakeholder Relations, told News24 recently. The Bidvest Protea Coin team will also have a drone at their disposal. "We will be joined on Saturday by a drone pilot we use quite regularly, who is also equipped to fly at night. We hope the combination of FLIR and the drone will be able to assist in getting the rangers on the ground closer to the lion," said De Waal, adding that the help was offered for free. While lions are generally active at night, lion protection organisation LionAid, said it was a myth that lions were exclusively nocturnal. "If lions have water within their territory that attracts prey animals in the daytime, the lions will be active in the day. Lions are extremely attuned to descending vultures during the day and will follow them to a free meal. "Lions hunt at night not because their eyesight is better under low light conditions than that of their prey, but because with stealth, they can probably approach their prey closer at night than during the day," the organisation says on its website. Elusive It will be risky for team members to get approach the lion to dart it. According to lion organisation Alert, a lion will eat about 7kg of food per day and can run at 60km/h - more than enough to catch a human. The Karoo lion has led teams over 110km from the park and despite some clues, such as spoor, it has remained elusive. "Should the aerial team be able to track the lion down overnight and keep an eye on him while the ground teams are resting, we will have a much better idea of where to continue our search, hopefully from much closer, in the morning," said De Waal. The current search team consists of 12 rangers and trackers, thanks to help from Addo Elephant, Camdeboo and Mountain Zebra National Parks in the Eastern Cape. Sightings or evidence of lion spoor should be reported to the police or the public can call the park on 023 415 2828.   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Kruger buffalo flicks lion into air like a toy The predator – which looks like it's in dire need of a meal – was asleep when a buffalo charged at it and flipped it into the air before chasing it off. Giraffe gives lion a piggy-back ride Africa's version of Uber? Lioness responds with a klap after being rudely awakened by cheeky male A naughty male lion sneaked up on a lioness while she was dozing in the road, and she wasn't too impressed about the interruption. Buffalo attempts to rescue baby elephant from lion's mouth In a rare show of bravery, a herd of buffalo tried to save a baby elephant from a pride of hungry lions. The video shows the lions on top of the upturned calf, trying to kill it. A herd of buffalo from a nearby watering hole heard the commotion. Awkward! Three male lions take turns mating with lioness This lioness's milkshake brought all the boy lions to the yard. This is a video of a lioness having a mating party with three male lions - each taking turns and bumping the other away in an almost playful manner. Lion calls squad to show hyenas who's the boss of the bush This lion's pride definitely had her back when she was cornered by a group of hyenas trying to steal her kill. It was captured on video in Kruger National Park by 19-year-old student Amber Soames and shared by Latest Sightings. Male lion ruins lionesses' hunt of a warthog This male lion was a little too eager for some warthog hamburgers after he bungled the hunt of two lionesses, who probably had a growl or two to say to him afterwards. Lion tries its luck taking on a leopard in a tree with a dead buck Unbelievable sighting of a male lion trying his luck climbing up a tree to confront a leopard that's busy eating his food.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.