Alex Mitchley File (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Gauteng High Court in Pretoria has scrapped the Dutch Reformed Church's policy against same-sex marriages, declaring it unlawful and invalid. In a judgment handed down on Friday, the court found that it was unfair to exclude members of the church from the full and equal enjoyment of all rights and freedoms that the church offers. These included the opportunity to get married in the church. READ: Dutch Reformed Church maintains decision not to recognise same sex marriages is not unfairly discriminatory In 2015, the church decided to allow individual church councils to recognise same-sex marriages, and scrapped a rule that gay ministers of the church had to be celibate. A year later, in 2016, the church adopted a new policy, scrapping the 2015 decision. Reverend Laurie Gaum, his father Dr Frits Gaum and eight other members of the Dutch Reformed Church launched the High Court application to have the 2016 decision set aside and declared unconstitutional. More to follow. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Gay rights in Taiwan face setback in referendum Gay rights campaigners faced a major blow in Taiwan on Saturday, as voters there were set to back a referendum that defines marriage as between a man and a woman. Jane Lanhee Lee reports. Methodists tighten ban on gay marriage, LGBT clergy The United Methodist Church voted on Tuesday to uphold and strengthen its ban on same-sex marriage and LGBT clergy in a move likely to alienate large numbers of followers who had pushed for reform. Taiwan gets ready to vote on gay marriage Taiwan could become the first place in Asia to legalize gay marriage. Last year the constitutional court declared that same-sex couples had the right to legally marry. Now, the public will get a chance to vote on whether that becomes law. Australian politican proposes to boyfriend during gay marriage debate Tim Wilson popped the question to Ryan Bolger, who was sitting in the public gallery, during a debate on legalising same-sex marriage in the Couples tie knot in Australia's first same-sex weddings Two female couples tied the knot in Australia's first same-sex weddings under new legislation allowing gay marriages. Gay rights supporters celebrate failure of vote on same sex marriage ban Gay rights supporters celebrated after a referendum to change Romania's constitution to prevent same sex couples from securing the right to marry failed to draw enough voters to validate the result on Sunday. Hong Kong court gives UK same-sex couple visa Hong Kong's Court of Final Appeal gave a British lesbian couple the right to a spousal dependency visa in a landmark win for LGBT community on Wednesday. Australia's first same sex marriage Amy and Lauren tied the knot just days after it became legal for same sex couples. The moment Australia said yes to gay marriage Australia votes in favour of legalising same-sex marriage prompting celebrations and an engagement. Ex-Australian prime minister attends sister's same-sex marriage A former Australian prime minister has attended his sister's same-sex marriage. Tony Abbott, who led a national campaign against gay marriage last year, arrived at Christine Forster's wedding in Sydney. Same-sex couples marry in midnight wedding ceremonies across Australia Same-sex couples married in midnight ceremonies across Australia on January 9 after the country's last legal impediment to gay marriage expired. Sesame Street writer says Bert and Ernie are totes a couple Bert and Ernie are finally free to love each other out and in the open. Sydney celebrates Mardi Gras 2019 Revellers march in the 41st annual Gay and Lesbian Mardi Gras parade in Sydney. Kylie Minogue, The Veronicas and NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian are among those who attending the event. LGBT churchgoers in Kenya pray for change The Cosmopolitan Affirming Church (CAC) is a rare space where Kenya's LGBT community can escape hostility from society, which is often reflected in hatred and vitriol from religious pulpits. Congregants of the church will be praying ahead of Frida... US Ambassador to Germany launches initiative to end criminalisation of homosexuality Ric Grenell met with LGBT activists from nine countries - saying the experience of European groups made them ideally placed to lead  a global campaign. 'Evil' Canadian jailed for life in gay village killings: reax Victims' relatives react on Friday as a Canadian landscaper is jailed for life for the murder and sexual mutilation of eight men from Toronto's gay community whose bodies he dismembered and hid in planters. Openly gay Polish politican launches progressive 'Spring' party Poland's first openly gay politician launches "Wiosna" or "Spring", a progressive political party to fight against the governing right-wing party which is accused by the EU of passing reforms that threaten the rule of law. Gay lawmaker flees Brazil due to death threats Brazil's first openly gay congressman Jean Wyllys will not return to Brazil to serve a third term in office, after constant death threats to him and his family. First Ukrainian soldier comes out as gay The LGBT community in Ukraine is often under attack but one volunteer soldier has gone public about his sexuality. Mosul demolishes iconic building used by IS for 'gay' killings Authorities in Mosul begin demolishing a one-time icon of modern Iraqi architecture used by the Islamic State group to throw men accused of being gay to their deaths. LGBT parents challenge stereotypes in China Gay couple An Hui and Ye Jianbin together with their three lively triplets turn heads when they navigate the streets of China. An LGBT family with children is an exception rather than the rule for a country where raising a child can be a costly affai WATCH: 'A fairy-tale day' as homeless couple exchanges wedding vows A dream came true for Llewellyn Jenniker and Cecilia Jenniker on Tuesday when the homeless couple, who've been living together on the streets for decades, finally tied the knot. Pope to gay clergy: Stay celibate or get out Pope Francis has issued one of his clearest statements to date on homosexual priests and nuns. The pontiff says they should resign rather than lead a double life. Papua New Guinea's 'gay village' offers sanctuary, hope As a gay man in Papua New Guinea, where gay sex is illegal and stigma and violence widespread, Kapera Patrick remembers homophobic thugs pelting him with abuse, stones and bottles. His life changed when he was taken in by a family in Hanuabada, a ... India: First pride parade after gay sex decriminalised Thousands march proudly through Delhi's street in the first gay pride parade since the India's highest court decriminalised homosexuality. Organisers said the pride march was the biggest since it began in 2007, with revellers chanting "We Got Our ... Christian bakers delighted over 'gay cake' victory The Christian owners of a bakery at the centre of the so-called "gay cake" case express their "delight and relief" after winning a Supreme Court appeal over a claim that they had discriminated against a customer.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.