Russel Molefe, Correspondent Thoriso Themane (File/Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Three people accused of the brutal murder of Thoriso Thamane presented themselves to the police when they heard that they were on a list of suspects wanted in connection with the killing. This emerged during their appearance in the Polokwane Magistrate's Court on Monday where they face a charge of murder. The accused are Chuene Maleka, 36, and Russia Chabangu and Alfred Mothapo, both aged 37 years. The three appeared separately from five school pupils who were arrested in connection with the same killing. However, because they are minor, they appear separately and the proceedings are in camera. Defence lawyer M Mokgotho said that the three adult accused called the police themselves when they heard they were on the list of wanted suspects. They were taken into police custody on Thursday night. Postponement Mokgotho revealed this while arguing against the State's application to have the case postponed to next week. "The accused are the ones who presented themselves to the police and told them all that happened. It will be unreasonable that they have to wait for a long period for a bail application. They must be given an opportunity for bail this week," Mokgotho said. But prosecutor Disebo Kgoeleya said the court diary was congested and submitted that the matter should be postponed to a date late next week. ALSO READ: Nine suspects arrested in connection with Thoriso Themane's murder to appear in court Magistrate Maharaj Prakash postponed the case to Monday, March 11 for a bail hearing. The five minors are expected to return to the Children's Court on March 14 for their bail application. Another charge Meanwhile, provincial police commissioner Lieutenant General Nneke Ledwaba has confirmed that the 15-year-old who boasted in a viral video that he was "untouchable" because his father was a senior police officer, is facing another murder charge. He apparently stabbed a 16-year-old schoolboy in December last year. Ledwaba said: "We are aware of that case. There was a counter-charge that was laid and both will be taken to the DPP (Director of Public Prosecutions) for a decision [on whether to prosecute or not]." READ: Thoriso Themane's killers must be severely punished -Bheki Cele He also clarified that a sixth minor, who was reported to have been arrested last week, was only taken for questioning and was not charged. He did not rule out the possibility of more arrests in the Themane murder case. Themane was killed earlier this month in Flora Park, Polokwane. The incident was filmed and went viral on social media, causing outrage. He was buried on Saturday in Polokwane and National Police Minister Bheki Cele attended. WATCH: Three accused of murdering Mihalik appear in court The three men accused of Pete Mihalik's murder - Vuyile Maliti, Sinozokohle Biyela and Nkosinathi Khumalo - appear in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Friday 15 February 2019. WATCH: Siam Lee's mother breaks down as details of her death heard in court Siam Lee's mother Carmen Nans Lee says she wasn't expecting to hear details of her child's murder on Wednesday. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. WATCH: Brother of slain Durban businessman says they will not accept an apology "We won't accept an apology from a hitman," said the family of a Durban businessman whose murder was caught on camera in August.

Kidesh Ramjettan was killed execution style in August in a hit at his petrol station in Rossburgh, south of Durban. #ReleaseMartha: Son of murdered husband threatens to take matters into own hands Relatives of Martha Marumo's deceased husband say if she receives a presidential pardon for the murder of Clitus Marumo, "something is going to happen". WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: 'It looked like a toy gun, he was so calm about it' - Eyewitness describes Mihalik murder WATCH: 'It looked like a toy gun, he was so calm about it' - Eyewitness describes Mihalik murder WATCH: Life sentences for Hannah Cornelius' murderers The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. WATCH: Two farm workers accused of killing Coligny teen found guilty Two farm workers accused of killing a 15-year-old Coligny teen were found guilt of murder in the North West High Court in Mahikeng on Wednesday. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. WATCH: 'I miss him every day' - Mother of murdered Coligny teen Pieter Doorewaard and Phillip Schutte were found guilty of murdering 16-year-old Matlhomola Moshoeu after they had caught him stealing a sunflower in Coligny. They were also found guilty of kidnapping, intimidation, theft and pointing a firearm.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.