Jenni Evans WATCH: Paarl Boys' students appear to support staffers accused of using corporal punishment Being hit against the head for not greeting. The "five-star treatment" on your back when your homework isn't done. Spanking with a cricket bat - all in the name of "discipline". Paarl Boys' High pupils rallied around their head of discipline on Friday after a difficult week of allegations of corporal punishment at the elite institution. In a video titled "You'll never walk alone", posted on Instagram, pupils stand closely at one of the school's stairways, with their arms over each other's shoulders. One pupil says: "We back sir 100%". In a semi-circle they sing loudly: "Hold your head up high and don't be afraid of the dark..." to the tune of the famous song by Gerry and the Pacemakers. Comments on the Facebook page where the video was posted, were almost all in support of the school, with rows of blue hearts and messages of solidarity. Said one: "As a parent, you have a choice... send your boy to one of the Cape Town schools, and spend nights awake wondering if he's trying tik at a friend's party, or doing the Momo challenge, etc. "Or you send him to Paarl Boys, and sleep easy, knowing that teachers like Mr Visagie are showing him how to be respectful and make the right decisions - preparing him for life. So the number one school in the country [doesn't] do things like other schools...Coincidence? I think not." Another wrote: "Goosebumps! Our hearts are blue!" "I have a lot of respect for the school! and Mr Visagie," read another comment. "Paarl Boys' High values that was taught to me i still use today! thank you Paarl Boys' High and thank you Mr Visagie!" (sic). #PaarlBoysHigh has an excellent academic & sporting record. I am glad I went there. Was I struck on the bottom with a plank? Yes. Was it pleasant? No. Were my brothers subjected to corporal punishment at other schools? Yes. I have a journalistic duty to share my experience - 2/2 Journalist Graeme Raubenheimer said: "There exists an unwritten cultural rule of 'don't speak out about corporal punishment'. It's perceived to be frowned upon if you do. I find it laughable that it's taken so long for the media to 'expose' this at the school." This followed a News24 story in which a parent and several past pupils alleged that Visagie had meted out corporal punishment as head of discipline, in spite of it being abolished and against the law since 1996. Almost 50% of users in support of corporal punishment A News24 poll on Thursday revealed that 49% of users (7 659) who responded believed corporal punishment was "good for discipline", 38% (5 950) believed it was "okay, within reason", and only 13% (2 017) believed it to be "child abuse". The school's principal Derek Swart and school governing body chairperson Ritzema de la Bay denied the allegations and said they would investigate any claims. The Western Cape Education Department said that Visagie had received a final warning for misconduct last year and a fine, with regard to corporal punishment. The department had also received complaints but could not take them further because the complainants did not want to be named. Numerous people who wrote to News24 to support claims of corporal punishment did not want to be named either, but also said Visagie was a good teacher and that they loved being at the school. Are there alternatives? For others who did not attend the school, the story brought back memories of their own corporal punishment at their school, with the topic leading to anecdotes of the type of corporal punishment they received. READ: It was 'pure brutality', yet others see 'nothing wrong' - Ex-Paarl Boys High pupils respond The University of Cape Town's Children's Institute indicated that the problem was not only at Paarl Boys' High School. Corporal punishment was still being used in 50% of schools, according to the National Prevalence Study of School Violence by Centre for Justice & Crime Prevention. "Research shows that corporal punishment is not effective in changing children's behaviour – in fact corporal punishment increases child aggression rather than reducing it," said senior researcher Stefanie Rohrs.She noted that the Department of Basic Education simply says corporal punishment is not allowed and it has not provided guidance or alternatives to corporal punishment. "For me, it's not so much about alternatives. You don't want them to replace corporal punishment with some other punishment. It's about creating a school culture based on shared values and an understanding that children have equal rights." Concerns about increase in violence in schools Nomusa Cembi, spokesperson for the SA Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) said that discipline at schools in South Africa is becoming increasingly worrying and teachers are feeling unsafe or traumatised. The most concerning aspect for teachers, was that if they called a pupil out on unacceptable behaviour, the same pupil and teacher had to sit together in detention and this made teachers feel unsafe. Or, if a pupil was suspended, the same teacher who raised issues about them had to still work with the pupil privately to make sure he or she kept up with the syllabus. "We are very concerned about the increases of violence in our schools, but we do not condone the use of corporal punishment," said Cembi. "Schools are supposed to come up with codes of conduct that should be observed by all involved, including the learners. In that code of conduct it should be stipulated as to what procedures would be followed if a learner does this and that." Teachers 'not getting enough support' Cembi notes that teachers who invoke the code of conduct often end up being exposed to further abuse and trauma. "They are not getting enough support. Whatever is there, at the end the teacher also feels it. But at the same time, we cannot condone corporal punishment and violence at school." For Cembi, discipline is a societal matter which should not be limited to the school or the home. "We have instances where we see child-headed families, children looking after themselves, or parents are working somewhere else. "The family structure has changed. It is not the same." For her, each school should have somebody who specialises in psycho-social support permanently based on the premises to get to the bottom of some children's behaviour. Sadtu is also currently putting the finishing touches to a programme to turn communities situated around schools into "fans" of the school, akin to the fandoms which jealously guard the well-being of their favourite sporting club. "They should be the fans of their schools, like they are with Orlando Pirates or the Blue Bulls." Broncos president: Finding 'new normal' critical for Humboldt Students returned to school in Humboldt, Saskatchewan, on Tuesday following Friday's bus crash that killed 15 people. The director of education for Greater Saskatoon Catholic Schools says the students were "happy to be together." School teacher uses Facebook live to read to pupils A school teacher in the United States has taken to Facebook live to read her pupils bedtime stories. Belinda George from Texas reads children's books to pupils every Tuesday using Facebook. Teacher strike delayed in Los Angeles The teacher union representing 35,000 Los Angeles members is postponing the start of a strike till next Monday. They had planned to strike Thursday, but the possibility of a court-ordered delay of the strike prompted the union move. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. Alec Baldwin teaches 'Trump School' Comedian Alec Baldwin headlined a state Democratic party banquet teaching school lessons about Donald Trump. Arizona teachers go on strike Arizona is the latest state where teachers are walking off the job to demand better pay and more school funding. French police arrest hundreds of students across the country French students have been blocking access to high schools across France in protest of President Emmanuel Macron's education reforms. #France #Franceprotests #giletsjaunes #Macron Marseille high school students clash with police Thousands of high school students take to the streets in Marseille, as more and more join students protest against education reforms affecting university admission. Dresden teacher wary of far-right AfD online platform A Dresden teacher recalls what life was like under communism. That's why the far-right AfD party's new online platform reminds her of the days when students could denounce teachers. Parents sue over district’s policy to arm teachers Parents filed a lawsuit to block a Pennsylvania school district from allowing teachers to carry guns in school, the latest in a debate playing out in many states over whether it's wise to arm educators to protect students from mass shooters. Ed Sheeran slams music funding cuts Ed Sheeran has slammed cuts to music education and revealed he was "benefited hugely" from the music education provided at his state school. French teachers protest against Macron reform plan Nearly one in two high school teachers, and one in four primary school teachers, go on strike against President Macron's plans to reform France's education sector and cut jobs - the first time all teaching unions have agreed to strike together sin... Cardi B visits former elementary school Cardi B just shocked and surprised teachers and students at her old elementary school when she paid them a visit! Why classrooms are starting to resemble arcades A vast array of apps, websites and software in schools today borrow elements from video games to help teachers connect with students living technology-infused lives. In war-torn Yemen, some students take classes under the tree Displaced children in Yemen find no room in overcrowded schools in Abs, forcing teachers to run lessons in makeshift classrooms where they are exposed to sunlight and insects. Kasky: I hoped to make gun control happen A shooting at Cameron Kasky's school in Florida killed three teachers and 14 of his fellow students. Trump's safety panel weighs in on arming teachers President Donald Trump's school safety commission said it should be left to states and schools to decide whether to arm teachers, but Education Secretary Betsy DeVos said she urges schools to "seriously consider" the option. Los Angeles teachers end week-long strike The union for more than 30,000 striking Los Angeles teachers clinched a tentative contract deal with the second-largest U.S. school district on Tuesday, paving the way for classes to resume for nearly half a million students after a week-long walkout Raqqa's schools resemble battlegrounds More than a year since the United States and its allies defeated Islamic State in the Syrian city of Raqqa, many of its schools still resemble battlegrounds that are unfit for purpose. School teacher launches appeal for surrogate after bowel cancer A primary school teacher whose womb was shrivelled by radiation, has taken the unusual step of launching an online appeal for a surrogate - after treatment for bowel cancer at 29 left her unable to carry a baby. Teaching the World with VIPKID's Cindy Mi VIPKID's Cindy Mi talks to Megan Rose Dickey about the importance of personalized learning, recruiting and retaining teachers, and changes to the edtech landscape. WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. In Pakistan public education suffocates under surging population At the Tanjai Cheena school in northwest Pakistan students squeeze into makeshift classrooms where plastic tarps serve as walls and electricity is sparse, as a surging population overstretches the country's fragile education system. Oakland teachers on strike, demand big pay raises Oakland's 3,000 teachers, who want a 12 percent raise, say are they're among the lowest paid public school teachers in the expensive San Francisco Bay Area. Striking Oakland teachers rally, march downtown About 3,000 teachers in Oakland, California, are striking over pay, class sizes and other issues, following educator walkouts in West Virginia, Los Angeles and Denver. The Oakland strike affects 36,000 students at 86 schools. Very concerning: NSW teacher accused of grooming student February, 2019. NSW Police Detective Inspector Mick Haddow speaking to media in Sydney about a NSW high school teacher who has been accused of indecently assaulting a 15-year-old student. Haddow says it is very concerning and urged parents and children to talk more openly about the dangers of grooming by those in positions of power. Denver teachers prepare to strike on Monday Denver teachers plan to strike Monday after failed negotiations with the school district over pay. Teachers plan to picket around the city beginning Monday. The district plans to staff schools with administrators and substitutes. Denver teachers picket on first day of strike Denver teachers picket on first day of strike Oakland teachers back in class after strike ends Thousands of Oakland teachers are back in classrooms after union members voted to approve a contract deal giving them 11 percent raises. David Oakes: Schools should teach lesser known Shakespeare plays Victoria star David Oakes has said he would like to see the lesser known Shakespeare plays taught in schools.

The actor, best known for playing Prince Ernest in the ITV period drama, said an attempt should be made to broaden people's horizons, ra... Pakistan's solar-powered schools for the underprivileged A 'SLUM' school run by Rohayl Varind is Pakistan's first solar night school. Denver teachers, officials hopeful deal is near Teachers walked picket Iines as talks to end a three-day teacher’s strike in Denver resumed Wednesday. Both sides returned to the bargaining table hopeful that a settlement could be reached. Why Kenyan school children say 'no', loudly School girls and boys in Kenyan schools are being taught self defence and how to report sexual and physical attacks. Powerlifting school teacher finds success at 50 Lucille Rowan is a weightlifter who won Commonwealth silver at powerlifting a year after first picking up a weight aged almost 50. Kentucky teachers call in sick, protest Some Kentucky school districts have canceled classes because too many teachers called in sick as protests continue at the state Capitol. Educators are upset about several bills in the state legislature. The anger propelling teachers into politics Over the past few months, massive teacher protests have shut down schools across the country. Now, the fight for education funding is prompting some to run for office. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. The Duchess of Cambridge makes passionate speech about children's mental health The Duchess of Cambridge thanks health and education delegates for their work at a Mental Health in Education conference in London. The Royal Foundation event saw experts discuss what more can be done to tackle mental health issues in schools with... West Virginia teachers going on strike Tuesday Nearly a year to the day after West Virginia teachers went on strike, they're doing it again. Unions called a statewide walkout Tuesday over education legislation that they view as lacking their input and as retaliation for last year's strike. Arizona educator becomes state teacher boss Spurred on by teacher protests, scores of teachers ran for office this fall, with many of them winning. They include Kathy Hoffman, who was sworn in Monday as Arizona's new Superintendent of Public Instruction. Rockin’ through recess! Chinese kids give BREAKdancing a new meaning At Xi Guan Primary School in China's Shanxi province, students have a very different way of spending their breaks between classes. Guided by their teachers and school principal, they use their time off to shuffle dance. According to the school's 4... Rally at Colorado capitol in support of teachers Striking teachers picketed outside of schools and marched through Denver’s streets as car horns blared in support. More than 2,100 of about 4,000 teachers called in absent in Denver’s first strike in 25 years. B.C. school board provides free menstrual products A British Columbia school board believes it is one of the first in the country to provide free feminine hygiene products in washrooms. Members of the New Westminster school board debated and unanimously passed a motion Tuesday night. Starting in S... B.C. school board provides free menstrual products A British Columbia school board believes it is one of the first in the country to provide free feminine hygiene products in washrooms. Members of the New Westminster school board debated and unanimously passed a motion Tuesday night. Starting in S... Meet the teacher who wears school uniform Alex Maina Kariuki is a school principal with a difference. He insists on wearing the same school uniform as his students. Denver teachers, schools reach deal to end strike Teachers in Denver were heading back to classroom Thursday morning after their union and Denver Public Schools reached a deal to end their three-day strike that includes raising pay by up to 11 percent, and more opportunities for future salary hikes.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.