Poloko Tau (Thapelo Maphakela, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The ANC is inviting the public to make an input as the party rushes to finalise its internal sexual harassment policy amid sex scandals that rocked the party. Two of its spokespersons, Pule Mabe and Zizi Kodwa, asked to step down from their responsibilities following allegations of misconduct. "The African National Congress has embarked on a process to finalise and implement a sexual harassment policy for all its employees across the country. The development of this policy is a consequence of an internal process where an employee laid a grievance of sexual harassment against her supervisor," said the party's acting spokesperson Dakota Legoete. "The outcome of that process was, amongst others; a directive by the panel that reviewed the complaint, that the ANC must develop and implement an internal policy on sexual harassment within 90 days of the ruling." Jesse Duarte exposes sexual harassment as endemic at Luthuli House. ANC deputy secretary general Jesse Duarte has exposed how sexual harassment is endemic at Luthuli House. Also read: ANC reiterates commitment to adopt own sexual harassment policy Legoete said they have to date developed a policy which is now up for "discussion and consultations with staff at national and provincial levels". "We will also consult with the ANC Women's League and the ANC gender commission and we will set up an advisory panel to give more inputs. The ANC also plans to solicit inputs from the Commission on Gender Equality on the policy before presentation to the National Working Committee (NWC) and National Executive Committee (NEC) for adoption by the end of March 2019," he said The ANC's social transformation committee member, Nocawe Mafu, said last Sunday that the ANC may not have its own sexual harassment policy but it has ensured that the public was protected at work places through the policy which is enshrined in the labour relations act. Also read: Sexual harassment is everywhere, 'on all sides' at Luthuli House - ANC's Duarte Explaining why the party needed the public to comment on the policy they were working on, Legoete said in a statement on Sunday: "This approach is premised on the acknowledgement that the manner in which the ANC, both as leader of society and a governing party, deals with sexual harassment in its internal environment is a public interest issue. Consequently, we invite members of the public to comment on the ANC's draft sexual harassment policy." Comments should be submitted no later than 15 March, 2019. Legoete said the draft policy will be made available on the ANC's digital platforms for download.  PODCAST: ANC and the polls – are the party's leaders even bothered with the upcoming elections? This week on POLOTIKI, yet another ANC leader found himself in the middle of sexual assault claims, EFF leader Julius Malema takes the land question to Newcastle and we peel off another layer of the relationship between the ruling party and Bosasa. KYK: Ramaphosa werf stemme in Vosloorus Pres. Cyril Ramaphosa het Dinsdag huishoudings in Vosloorus in Gauteng besoek as deel van die ANC se verkiesingsveldtog. David Makhura, Gautengse premier, het hom vergesel. Inside the ANC's Bosasa election war room Bosasa sponsored these war rooms for the past three elections for the ANC, at an estimated cost of R2-million per election. WATCH: ANC hails 'selfless leader' Mama Kotane as she celebrates 107 years ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule on Tuesday hailed stalwart Mama Rebecca Kotane at her 107th birthday celebration in Soweto. WATCH: 'ANC is killing us' - DA unveils billboard listing names of Marikana, Life Esidimeni victims DA leaders and supporters marched on Wednesday to unveil a new giant billboard in Johannesburg. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. ANC launches election manifesto South Africa's ruling ANC party launches its election campaign on Saturday ahead of polls in May that it is tipped to win despite recently falling support, internal divisions and a sluggish economy. On Friday, party members including President Cyr... South Africa's ex-president just signed a record deal Former president Jacob Zuma, who is implicated in a major corruption scandal, has been given a taxpayer-funded record deal. Zuma on land: Less debate, more nationalisation Former President Jacob Zuma said there is too much debate about land expropriation without compensation to his liking, and suggested that land should be nationalised. 2017: WATCH: A News24 Festive Season special - politicians 'sing' Last Christmas Watch as South African politicians attempt to 'sing' pop duo Wham!'s 1984 hit single, Last Christmas. WATCH: ANC mourns the passing of Mendi Msimang - 'A giant tree has fallen' ANC pays tribute to struggle stalwart and its former treasurer-general Mendi Msimang following his passing at the age of 78. ANC-LP kamp uit buite premier se kantoor Video: Verskaf WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. RUSSIA TRIP: 'I'm back' says David Mabuza; paid for own trip to get medical treatment Deputy President David Mabuza has emerged in Piet Retief, Mpumalanga, after he went to Russia for a routine medical trip after taking sick leave last month. Mabuza back from sick leave, campaigns in Mpumalanga Deputy President David Mabuza has emerged in Piet Retief, Mpumalanga, after he went Russia for a routine medical trip after taking sick leave last month. LAND REFORM: The exact moment resolution to amend Constitution is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. WATCH: Singing in chamber as resolution that Constitution be amended is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. Ontevrede ANC-lede van Noordwes neem party hof toe Die ANC-lede van Noordwes, wat die party uitdaag omdat hulle vroeër vanjaar die provinsiale uitvoerende komitee (PUK) ontbind het, was Vrydagoggend positief oor hul kanse in die hooggeregshof in Johannesburg. WATCH: 'We are not fighting the ANC' - Mahumapelo ahead of court appearance Former ANC North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo addresses supporters before fighting the NEC decision to disband his PEC at the South Gauteng High Court. WATCH: Dan Plato elected as Cape Town mayor Dan Plato has been elected as Cape Town's new executive mayor during a special council sitting on Tuesday. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. Outa, ANCGP and civil society groups march to union buildings against etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. Thousands marched through the streets of Tshwane on Friday morning. WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.