Sesona Ngqakamba Pitch Black Afro (PHOTO: GETTY IMAGES/GALLO IMAGES) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The non-appearance of a state pathologist has once again led to the postponement of the murder case of hip-hop artist Thulani Ngcobo – better known as Pitch Black Afro – in the Johannesburg Magistrate's Court. A warrant of arrest has now been issued for the state pathologist. Senior prosecutor Mojalefa Metswamere tried to explain to Magistrate Piet du Plessis the reason why the pathologist was a no-show. He said there was a report from the pathologist, although the government official was not present. Du Plessis argued that the pathologist had been subpoenaed and was supposed to be in court in person. The magistrate asked the police to call the pathologist outside and if there was no reply, a warrant of arrest would be issued. After the calls were made, the magistrate refused to go ahead with proceedings, postponing the matter to March 20 to allow for the pathologist's arrest. READ: Pitch Black Afro tells his mother she looks 'beautiful' before his bail application is postponed Ngcobo remains in custody. After being instructed that his matter was postponed, a subdued  Ngcobo said: "Thank you, Your Worship," as he walked down to the cells. This was in stark contrast to his previous appearances where he seemed to be in high spirits. Ngcobo, who has been in custody for almost three months now faces charges of premeditated murder and defeating the ends of justice after his wife, Catherine Modusane, died at a Johannesburg bed and breakfast on December 31. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: 'It looked like a toy gun, he was so calm about it' - Eyewitness describes Mihalik murder WATCH: 'It looked like a toy gun, he was so calm about it' - Eyewitness describes Mihalik murder WATCH: Family 'can't cope' with Sibusiso Khwinana murder The family of murdered Matwetwe lead actor Sibusiso Khwinana said they are saddened by his passing. WATCH: Heavy police escort for Mihalik accused Three people appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Thursday on charges for the murder of top advocate Pete Mihalik. WATCH: Murder-accused Packham to spend Christmas in jail Murder-accused Rob Packham's bail was withdrawn for contacting witnesses and he was ordered to stay in custody until his trial in March over the death of his wife, the Western Cape High Court ruled on Thursday. WATCH: Jason Rohde guilty of murder; bail denied (full stream) Jason Rohde has been found guilty of the murder of his wife Susan by the Western Cape High Court on Thursday. WATCH: Two farm workers accused of killing Coligny teen found guilty Two farm workers accused of killing a 15-year-old Coligny teen were found guilt of murder in the North West High Court in Mahikeng on Wednesday. Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues cross-examination (Day2/Part1) WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State is continuing its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. #ReleaseMartha: Son of murdered husband threatens to take matters into own hands Relatives of Martha Marumo's deceased husband say if she receives a presidential pardon for the murder of Clitus Marumo, "something is going to happen". WATCH: Brother of slain Durban businessman says they will not accept an apology "We won't accept an apology from a hitman," said the family of a Durban businessman whose murder was caught on camera in August.

Kidesh Ramjettan was killed execution style in August in a hit at his petrol station in Rossburgh, south of Durban. WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues her testimony | Part 2 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. WATCH: Two police officers charged with murder of TUT student granted bail Two police officers were granted bail at the Soshanguve Magistrates Court on Tuesday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.