Duncan Alfreds Storm front. (file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A powerful tropical cyclone could hit Mozambique by the end of the week, says the South African Weather Service (SAWS). Tropical Cyclone Idai has developed in strength and is forecast to make landfall by Saturday, March 16. "When it makes landfall, it weakens slightly but the impact is still there. The winds are still strong – about 50 knots or 100km/h," SAWS forecaster Venetia Phakula told News24 on Monday. READ: Intense cyclone barrels toward Mozambique The cyclone is expected to lash the country with heavy rain and strong winds in the northern parts. "Most of the rain is in the northern parts of Mozambique. It's forecast to be 90mm in 24 hours on the 16th of March," said Phakula. Mozambican authorities alerted Idai is expected to produce about triple the amount of rain that fell during the devastating October 2018 Gauteng storms. SAWS said that it was in communication with Mozambican authorities through its national joint operations centre (NATJOC). "We even have a NATJOC – they come together and distribute information to all relevant countries. There is communication between us and the Mozambican people," said Phakula. Data from the United States National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOOA) showed a strong storm system over the Indian Ocean, east of Mozambique and west of Madagascar. According to Windy.com, the cyclone will travel in a southerly direction and weaken substantially by Friday when peak wind speed is expected to drop to 70km/h. News24 reported that Tropical Storm Dineo, with winds in excess of 166km/h, hit Mozambique in February last year. It followed Tropical Storm Desmond, which hit in January of the same year. "This is typical weather for this time of year," said Phakula. Unpredictable In 2000, 800 people in Mozambique died as a result of floods caused by heavy rains. Phakula warned that storms can be unpredictable. "You might expect it to make landfall in one area and then it changes direction." The system is not expected to have a significant impact on the weather in South Africa.    KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter What If We Controlled the Weather? It can make our day, ruin our week, pleasantly surprise us, or instantly annoy us. And there's nothing we can do about it. But what if humans could control the weather? What if the wind, rain and snow was at our fingertips, and natural disasters could be switched off at the press of a button? Controlling the skies could become the next big thing for modern science! For more such images and videos visit www.gettyimages.com Storm Pabuk slams Thailand's eastern coast Tropical Storm Pabuk ravages Thailand's eastern coast, leaving one fisherman dead and another missing. Cyclone Mora batters Bangladesh Officials say at least five people have been killed as the storm hit the south-eastern coast. More than 20 dead as tornadoes rip through Alabama Rescuers have been searching the debris of destroyed homes for victims, as one county alone reported more tornado deaths than for the whole of the US last year. Over 100 homes damaged in Alabama tornado Alabama's Lee County sheriff, Jay Jones says the search for missing people after a deadly tornado is over. More than 100 homes are badly damaged and the death toll remains at 23 with 4 people still in critical condition. WATCH: How Do Clouds Make Rain? From evaporation to condensation, here's a fun experiment to explain to kids how clouds are formed and it eventually rains. Unprecedented rains in Japan kill up to 69 people Historic rains in Western Japan killed at least 69 people and left thousands stranded. Officials warn that more downpours are expected on Monday. Storm blankets Albuquerque with snow An overnight storm has prompted more than 200 closures and delays across New Mexico. Forecasters say as much as 6 inches of snow is expected in some areas of Albuquerque. Death toll in Japan flood disaster passes 200 Intense heat and water shortages raise fears of disease outbreaks in flood-hit western Japan on Thursday as the death toll of the worst weather disaster in 36 years passes 200. Ed Giles reports Tornado death confirmed after Mississippi storms The National Weather Service confirms that two tornadoes struck Columbus, Mississippi as violent storms rolled through. Officials say one woman was killed and 12 people were injured. Video shows woman climb out of car in flood Calhoun County, Mississippi Sheriff's Department video shows a woman climb out of her car after and into a nearby Sheriff's patrol truck after she apparently got stuck in a flood. Heavy rain is flooding parts of Mississippi, Alabama and Georgia. It's "raining fish" in Malta after storm brings high waves It's "raining fish" in Malta after storm brings high waves What's Wrong With Our Weather? From killer tornadoes to deadly floods and chilling freezes, the world's weather is becoming more extreme. Scientists now believe they could have identified a natural phenomenon behind it. Meet the scientists trying to unlock the secret. Alabama tornado kills at least 23 At least 23 people are known dead and more are injured after a tornado struck southeastern Alabama on Sunday. Crews are still searching for more dead and wounded. Monster mudslides ravage California Parts of California are bracing for yet more flooding after a powerful storm unleashed historic levels of rainfall earlier this week. Floods and mudslides across the state have triggered evacuations and sent homes tumbling down hillsides. Tornado kills at least 22 in Lee County, Alabama A tornado roared into southeast Alabama and killed at least 22 people and injured several others Sunday, part of a severe storm system that caused catastrophic damage and unleashed other tornadoes around the Southeast. Hurricanes Severe tropical cyclone bears down on north Australia coast. Videographic on hurricanes. Violent storms pound Italy Several regions are on high alert as fierce winds and rain lash Italy, leaving at least nine dead.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.