Correspondent Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi. (Mduduzi Ndzingi, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Gauteng education MEC Panyaza Lesufi will on Tuesday address learners of Fons Luminis Secondary School in Diepkloof, Soweto, on allegations that a Grade 8 girl was raped by three fellow learners while attending a school induction/orientation camp in De Deur at the weekend, the department said in a statement on Tuesday morning. "This unfortunate incident was reported at the local police station and investigation continues," spokesperson Steve Mabona said. The alleged perpetrators have been suspended from school. "Our psychosocial team will provide counselling to the victim and other learners accordingly," Mabona said. The MEC will visit the school at 08:00 on Tuesday, the department said. This is a developing story. MEC @Lesufi will this morning Tuesday 05 March 2019, address learners of Fons Luminis on rape allegations, of a grade 8 girl learner  by 3 fellow  learners @EducationGP    WATCH: Cape pupil awarded for matriculating after surviving deadly fire Lance Minnies came close to losing his life in a deadly 2016 fire and almost gave up on his studies when he recovered. But it was the hope for a better future and the support of caring people at his school that pulled him through. WATCH: Hundreds gather for emotional night vigil at Hoërskool Driehoek Hundreds of people gathered at Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark for an emotional night vigil, after a concrete slab collapsed at the school, killing three children and seriously injuring 25 others. WATCH: SAPS escort pupils to matric farewell in Nyala Making an entrance is an extra bonus point when making a statement at a matric farewell. One couple in particular, turned heads when they rocked up in a police Nyala van escorted by police officers at their farewell in Newcastle over the weekend. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. School teacher uses Facebook live to read to pupils A school teacher in the United States has taken to Facebook live to read her pupils bedtime stories. Belinda George from Texas reads children's books to pupils every Tuesday using Facebook. N.Korean kindergarten in Hanoi hopes for Kim visit The pupils and staff at a North Korean kindergarten in Hanoi are holding out hope for a visit by Kim Jong Un, who is in the city for a summit with US President Trump. Youth Strike 4 Climate: Thousands of UK students march for the planet Thousands of pupils are swapping pens for placards as the student climate protests sweeping Europe reach the UK. Schoolchildren across UK strike over climate change Schoolchildren are taking a stand against climate change, with thousands of pupils walking out of class to demand immediate action.

Youth Strike 4 Climate movement organisers said strikes are taking place in 60 towns and cities, with youngsters c... Prince Charles meets pupils affected by the Grenfell fire Prince Charles meets pupils affected by the Grenfell Tower fire Music teacher helps deaf kids to hear and speak A music teacher from Novosibirsk works with deaf children in order to help them restore their communication abilities. One of his pupils, 14-year old Fedya, felt a little bit insecure during the lessons and wanted to quit them, but after two weeks... Officials investigate reports Rolf Harris walked onto school grounds Wood sculptures outside Oldfield Primary School in Bray, Maidenhead, as officials are probing a report that disgraced entertainer Rolf Harris walked onto the grounds of the school and waved at pupils. The convicted sex offender went onto the premi... Children's Mental Health Week: Meditation pod installed at Essex school Footage of the meditation pod at Longwood Primary Academy in Harlow, Essex. Interviews with Year 6 pupils Elissa and George. Founders of Inhere Meditation Ghazal Abrishamchi and Adiba Osmani, Headteacher James Hollinsley. WATCH: Fist bumps, high fives and dance-offs - teacher lets children choose how to say hello A Western Cape teacher has gone above and beyond to make each of her Grade R learners feel special every single morning. Zuleka Smit hands out fist bumps, high fives and dance-offs at her class door instead of a traditional formal greeting. WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. Revision, staying active, working hard: Cream of 2018 matric crop share their insights Some of the 2018 National Senior Certificate (NSC) top achievers say that they remain anxious on how well they have done ahead of the results being announced at Midnight on Thursday. WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg. Michelle Obama speaks at London girls' school Michelle Obama spoke to pupils in North London about the power of education. 79 school pupils kidnapped in troubled Cameroon region Gunmen kidnap 79 school students in an English-speaking region of Cameroon where separatists are fighting an armed campaign for independence, security and government sources said. The Big Bang Fair offer 3D-printed school dinners Pupils get 3D-printed STEM school dinners as the The Big Bang Fair visits St Helens Primary School in Canning Town. Offering Cauliflower cogs and geometric fish and chips, BBF is using technology to encourage younger children into STEM careers. Drastic new security measures in US schools Many schools are introducing new tactics to try to prevent shootings - but do they have any chance of keeping pupils safe? Can paying schoolgirls help South Sudan? A programme in the capital Juba aims to increase school attendance by giving pupils cash. Drake shoots video at Miami school and donates scholarship Drake surprised pupils at Miami Senior High School when he turned up to film his latest music video, and thanked them by donating $25,000 to the school and promised to design them all new uniforms. School children help Theresa May birdwatch Theresa May used a pair of binoculars as she set out her vision for protecting the environment.

The Prime Minister went birdwatching with a group of primary school pupils to mark the launch of the 25-year strategy. School in the shadow of Grenfell Six months on, how pupils at one primary school are coping with the loss of a classmate and their homes. Strictly star Alexandra Burke surprises students at her former school Strictly Come Dancing star Alexandra Burke goes back to her former school to hand out gifts. The singer teamed up with Amazon to bring presents to pupils at Elizabeth Garrett Anderson School in Islington ahead of Black Friday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.