Pelane Phakgadi WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. (Thapelo Maphakela, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The ANC has lost some support nationally ahead of the elections, according to a latest poll from the Institute of Race Relations (IRR). The party currently stands on 54.7%, down 1.3 percentage points from the December result of 56%. The DA is at 21.8%, which is a 3.1% percentage point increase from 18%. According to the February poll, the EFF is standing at 12.2%. This is a 1.2 percentage point increase from 11% recorded in the December snap poll. The first poll that the IRR conducted was in September. PODCAST: ANC and the polls – are the party's leaders even bothered with the upcoming elections? This week on POLOTIKI, yet another ANC leader found himself in the middle of sexual assault claims, EFF leader Julius Malema takes the land question to Newcastle and we peel off another layer of the relationship between the ruling party and Bosasa. That poll showed that the governing party was increasing its support. However, the IRR says that seems to have changed as opposition parties begin to make inroads ahead of the elections. The IRR said that it had interviewed 1 600 registered voters telephonically between February 12-26. The margin of error is 3.3%. The survey was also extended to two provincial samples, namely Gauteng and the Western Cape. In Gauteng, 502 registered voters took part, and 405 in the Western Cape. Voter turnout The IRR says the ANC may claw back to 55%, should voter turnout hit an expected 71%. "But a lower voter turnout will give more support to the DA, and would not help the ANC in any way," said IRR head of politics and governance Gareth van Onselen. "The ANC's general decline from 2014 can be almost exclusively attributed to the growth of the EFF, as the parties are now locked in a battle for between 5% and 10% of alienated black ANC voters," Van Onselen said. According to the research institution, the EFF currently has a 12.2% support base, with 98.1% of its supporters being black voters, while 0.4% are white. Van Onselen said that the EFF appeared to be the only opposition party able to make direct and significant inroads into the ANC's support. "The backbone if the EFF's national support is to be found in Gauteng, where the party stands at 18.2% on the provincial ballot, and the ANC on 42.6%. At the same time, the DA's support seems to be set for some small growth in Gauteng and, even in a low voter turnout scenario, the ANC fails to get to 50%. That may lead to a coalition government, which the DA uses to govern the Tshwane and Johannesburg metros. "All three big parties - ANC, DA and EFF - appear to be able to form a majority coalition: the ANC and the EFF; the EFF and the DA; and even the ANC and the DA," Van Onselen said. The ANC's support base by race shows that 96.2% of its supporters are black voters, who would be voting for the party, according to the IRR. Western Cape In the Western Cape, however, the DA is not doing so well. "The DA has been suffering a torture by a thousand cuts. In the wake of its internal incoherence and infighting over the past two years, it appears the number of voters it has consolidated under its banner from other smaller parties have returned to those parties," Van Onselen said. As a result, both the ACDP and the FF Plus are making a good showing in the province, and former Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille's Good party has, so far, also managed to gather some support, polling at 2.5%. The IRR says these parties could hinder the DA in retaining a majority in the province. Van Onselen said that the next survey would be conducted in April and that the IRR intends to publish the results in the week before the much anticipated May 8 elections. WATCH: 10 million eligible voters are unregistered - IEC Almost 10 million South Africans who are eligible to vote are not registered, the Independent Electoral Commission said on Wednesday. WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma. ANC launches election manifesto South Africa's ruling ANC party launches its election campaign on Saturday ahead of polls in May that it is tipped to win despite recently falling support, internal divisions and a sluggish economy. On Friday, party members including President Cyr... WATCH: Police clash with marchers at ANC demonstration A scuffle ensued between a group wearing Sanco t-shirts and police after fireworks was allegedly fired during an ANC march on Friday to Premier David Makhura's office demanding service delivery. WATCH: 'ANC is killing us' - DA unveils billboard listing names of Marikana, Life Esidimeni victims DA leaders and supporters marched on Wednesday to unveil a new giant billboard in Johannesburg. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH: 'We are not fighting the ANC' - Mahumapelo ahead of court appearance Former ANC North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo addresses supporters before fighting the NEC decision to disband his PEC at the South Gauteng High Court. WATCH: Damage to 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard a criminal act – DA The DA has called the damage inflicted on its newly unveiled 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, a 'criminal act'. Outa, ANCGP and civil society groups march to union buildings against etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. Thousands marched through the streets of Tshwane on Friday morning. WATCH: ANC paints Joburg yellow demanding service delivery Hundreds of ANC members from greater Joburg – in collaboration with alliance partners Sanco, SACP and Cosatu – are marching to the offices of Mayor Herman Mashaba, Premier David Makhura and Eskom to hand over memorandums demanding service delivery S.Africa's EFF party supporters arrive ahead of Manifesto launch Supporters of South Africa's far-left Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) arrive at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve, Pretoria, ahead of the party's manifesto launch. Inside the ANC's Bosasa election war room Bosasa sponsored these war rooms for the past three elections for the ANC, at an estimated cost of R2-million per election. WATCH: Armed local farmer walks into demonstration in Greyton Western Cape police are probing an incident involving a man who was caught on camera on Monday, wielding a firearm during a demonstration in Greyton. WATCH: ANC mourns the passing of Mendi Msimang - 'A giant tree has fallen' ANC pays tribute to struggle stalwart and its former treasurer-general Mendi Msimang following his passing at the age of 78. WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. PODCAST: ANC and the polls – are the party's leaders even bothered with the upcoming elections? This week on POLOTIKI, yet another ANC leader found himself in the middle of sexual assault claims, EFF leader Julius Malema takes the land question to Newcastle and we peel off another layer of the relationship between the ruling party and Bosasa.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.