Ithuba's new Daily Lotto has recorded 20 jackpot winners in less than a month, the operator said on Friday. Earlier this month, the operator announced that the Daily Lotto offered players daily jackpots with guaranteed winners. The first draw took place on March 10 and two days later, a 59-year-old Cape Town man bagged R216 000. The game comprises 36 numbers and players are required to select and match five numbers to win the jackpot. The Cape Town man who bagged the first jackpot told Ithuba he would use some of his winnings to renovate his home. "I have been wanting to revamp my home for a long time but I have been battling. I was starting to worry that I would never be able to do this because I am fast approaching retirement," he said. Have you played the new DAILY LOTTO game yet? If not, you are missing out! PLAY NOW in-store, online https://t.co/f05wi7nYSr or on the National Lottery Mobile App. pic.twitter.com/fXojl5PazA  He said when he heard about the Daily Lotto, which guarantees that players could win minimum jackpots of R100 000, he immediately started playing. Corporate relations manager at Ithuba, Khensani Mabuza, said when they launched the game, they did not expect the response it received. "Within just two weeks, the Daily Lotto has become the third best-selling game in the lottery game portfolio. The first jackpot win exceeded all expectations," she said. This week, the game reached its biggest jackpot win – a cool R417 930.40 which was divided among two players on Wednesday. Next DAILY LOTTO jackpot is estimated at R400,000! PLAY NOW https://t.co/f05wi7nYSr or on the Mobile App. pic.twitter.com/FcBhA8POCB  Mabuza explained that the Daily Lotto did not roll over but rather rolled down to the next applicable divisions, meaning, when there is no jackpot winner, the prize is shared among winners in the next divisions. The share prize will be paid out up to Division 4, meaning even if players match a minimum of two numbers, they are still eligible to receive the applicable payout amount allocated to the specific division. Numbers for the game can be selected using a manual or quick pick selection method at a cost of R3 per board.  Get the Daily Lotto results on News24! Download the News24 app via the Play or iTunes App stores and get a free alert moments after each Lotto draw with the winning numbers.Tap here to download the News24 Android App or here to download the News24 Apple App. *Please note that the information provided herein is third party information.While every effort is expended to ensure that the information provided is true and accurate, we are not responsible for errors, omissions or any loss which an individual may experience.See the National Lottery Terms and conditions here. 