Canny Maphanga (File, Getty/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The South African Police Service (SAPS) in Mthatha, Eastern Cape, is investigating the murder on Sunday of two men in Lutholi locality. "It is alleged that today (Monday) at about 05:30, one of the community members saw the two deceased with multiple wounds on their upper bodies at the dongas whilst he was taking his [live]stock to the grazing field," spokesperson Captain Dineo Koena said in a statement. A Ford Ranger "in ashes" was recovered near the hacked bodies of the two men, believed to be aged 35 and 45. Police believe that the vehicle may have belonged to one of the victims. The motive behind the killings is not yet known. Police are appealing to anyone with information that could lead to the arrests of the perpetrators to come forward. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Durban beach buried in garbage after heavy rains Piles of plastic bottles and other debris accumulated on a Durban beach on Monday morning following heavy rain in KwaZulu-Natal. Watch. WATCH: Alex hero saves stranded child A video of a man slowly shimmying his way across the Jukskei River to rescue a child stuck midway on a pipe has gone viral on social media. WATCH: Brick slinging man attacks cops An Mpumalanga man is under police guard in hospital after being shot and injured by police at a school. WATCH: More than 170 left homeless after fire rages through Alexandra Over 100 shacks were destroyed by a fire in Alexandra north of Johannesburg on Tuesday afternoon. WATCH: Grief, anger as Durban community mourns teenagers killed by taxi Grief-stricken Newlands East residents became enraged on Wednesday after a minibus taxi ran into four secondary school pupils in Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, killing three. WATCH: Family 'can't cope' with Sibusiso Khwinana murder The family of murdered Matwetwe lead actor Sibusiso Khwinana said they are saddened by his passing.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.