Canny Maphanga A minstrel group marching down Darling Street. (James de Villiers, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Western Cape High Court has granted the City of Cape Town its final interdict with costs against two minstrel carnival associations. The final interdict granted on Wednesday prevents the Cape Town Minstrel Carnival Association (CTMCA), the Cape Cultural Carnival and Events Committee (CCCEC) and their member troupes from hosting events at any City-owned facility without complying with applicable regulations and the law first. "The City was forced to take these steps because the association has on several occasions shown complete disregard for the national Safety at Sports and Recreation Events Act, as well as the City's regulations for events. ALSO READ: Cape Town minstrel groups withdraw high court application "These illegal acts by the association and its leaders have at times been a blemish to events that are important and culturally significant to the troupes, their families, communities and to the history of Cape Town," mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith said in a statement on Thursday. This final interdict comes after the CTMCA as well as its troupes attempted to hold an illegal event at the Belhar sports ground in January without obtaining prior written, regulatory approval. This was followed by the CTMCA making yet another attempt to access a facility in Johnson Road, Rylands, a week later without authorisation. Not the first court battle "It is unfortunate that the CTMCA and the CCCEC refuse to comply with regulations even though other minstrel organisations have complied with the requirements of the law. "Those organisations have held successful competitions and their events' season passed without any hiccups," Smith added. This is not the first time the City of Cape Town has had to go head to head with the two associations. In December 2018, the minstrel groups brought an urgent court application to the High Court which was later withdrawn, making it the seventh victory with costs for the City of Cape Town. "This was the seventh High Court application that the CCCEC/CTMCA has brought against the City in the past three years. The City won six cases with costs, and the CCCEC/CTMCA has now withdrawn its seventh application," the City explained in a previous statement. The City still maintains that it is committed to working with minstrel groups to raise the stature of the events so they can compete with some of the best in the world. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Mitchells Plain residents hurl insults at police as they arrest injured man The community of Rocklands in Cape Town were up in arms on Monday when a man, visibly injured, was arrested by police for possession of drugs. WATCH: Witness fails to immediately identify Rob Packham in murder trial The eyesight of 76-year-old neighbourhood watch member Paul Gray was called into question after he failed to immediately identify murder accused Rob Packham as the man he had seen in the car of his slain wife, Gill, on the day of her disappearance. 'Please continue to support them' - Babe Wodumo's father to parents of abuse victims On Tuesday Bongekile Simelane's parents spoke on her behalf at a press conference as she was too ill to be there. WATCH: South African farmers have built the first floating solar park in Africa Western Cape farmers have built Africa's first commercial floating solar park – that now let's them tackle load shedding and drought. They say it's a better investment than a new orchard. WATCH: Aquarium rescues ocean sunfish from Cape Town dry dock The Two Oceans Aquarium launched a rescue operation this weekend after an ocean sunfish was found trapped in the Robinson Dry Dock in the V&A Waterfront. WATCH: Rohde 'used wife's body as a show house' to sell his story – Judge Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe referenced Jason Rohde's history as the former CEO of Lew Geffen Sotheby's International Realty by comparing the staging of his wife's suicide to the staging of a house by estate agents. WATCH: Buses burned, windows shattered in CPUT violence Vandals destroyed two buses and damaged buildings at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology's Bellville campus in the early hours of Wednesday morning. WATCH: Holy Cross primary in Cape Town on fire Firefighters were called out to Holy Cross RC Primary School in the Cape Town CBD after plumes of smoke were seen emanating from the premises. WATCH | #CuteOverload: Catching up with 'surprise' Cape Town quadruplets The chances are smaller than one in half a million - but first-time mother Inga Mafenuka gave birth to quadruplets in Cape Town in July. We caught up with the family six months own the line. Watch.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.