Canny Maphanga Police car. (Photo: Getty/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Limpopo police have rescued a local businessman who was reported missing following a robbery at his home on Saturday night. "Following this incident, the police joint operation was immediately activated to track down the perpetrators and to rescue the kidnapped businessman," police spokesperson Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe said on Sunday. The man was reported missing after the suspects held him and his employees at gunpoint at about 21:30 on Saturday and ordered them to lie down. The victim was later dumped in an open field a few kilometres outside of Polokwane still tied up and blindfolded. He was found unharmed. The unknown suspects also withdrew an undisclosed amount of money from the victim's bank account. "During the process, the suspects robbed the victims of their cellphones, forced the owner inside his Porsche vehicle and drove away, leaving behind the employees. "The car was later found abandoned near Ivy Park suburb within the city of Polokwane," Ngoepe explained. No arrests have been made and police are appealing to the public to assist with any information that might lead them to the suspects. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Limpopo diesel thief drives off without paying R3 179 bill A white Ford Ranger bakkie was caught on CCTV camera making off with fuel worth R3 179, without paying a cent. WATCH: Would-be robber shot dead outside Limpopo mall A would-be bag thief was shot and killed in the parking lot of a Polokwane mall; this after the owner of the bag gave chase, pointed a firearm at the assailant and pulled the trigger. WATCH: Limpopo accident leaves 26 dead, among them 2 children Two children are among the 26 people who died in a horror multi-vehicle collision on the N1 in Mookgopong outside Modimolle, Limpopo, on Friday.

Four people survived the crash and were taken to various hospitals for medical treatment. WATCH: Site conditions 'really bad' as Medupi spews ash Clouds of ash could be seen above the Medupi plant in Limpopo on Thursday. WATCH: Ramaphosa calls on private sector to assist with the fight against corruption Corruption has become a big issue that has to be addressed by the whole nation, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Thursday. WATCH: Congestion at toll gate as holidaygoers head home The holidays seem to be over for most, if the number of vehicles on the country's roads are anything to go by. Snapshot of the Marula Festival 2019 in Limpopo When most people think of the marula fruit, images of drunken elephants or the creamy drink are probably the first thing that comes to mind. What you may not know, is that the marula is bound up in a myriad of traditions like the Marula Festival. WATCH: Ash clouds still visible above Medupi Clouds of ash could be seen above the Medupi plant in Limpopo on Thursday. This Limpopo bush lodge proves why a lux poolside experience is the best Palala Boutique Game Lodge and Spa in Limpopo is a 4-hour drive from Johannesburg, nestled near the Botswana border. Hearts will break as you see an eagle take out a baby warthog A baby warthog ran its last run with the family when a martial eagle decided to make it its next meal in Kruger National Park in South Africa. Meet The Face Of Amarula In The Limpopo Bush You don't have to go to fancy golf resorts or city boutique hotels for a luxury long weekend tryst - and at the Amarula Lapa in Limpopo you can even taste the wild of Africa and feel like bush royalty. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. WATCH: Limpopo matriculant comes out tops despite textbook, computer shortage Dimpho Phalane, a matriculant at Mampotjane Secondary School in Limpopo, could barely contain her excitement when she realised she was one of the country's top achievers. When your day in Sabi starts with a leopard kill inside the camp... Staff in Idube Game Reserve who spend their entire time in the bush could not believe this early-morning kill which took place right on the lawn of the lodge. WATCH: University of Limpopo, South Africa, students walk out of philosophy test University of Limpopo students this week walked out of an Educational Philosophy test.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.