Jenni Evans Sasha Redman (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Department of International Relations and Cooperation (Dirco) is planning a massive awareness drive around visa requirements for teaching English in China as South African Sasha Redman goes into her second month in detention over an alleged immigration violation. "If you're going to teach in China, you need a work visa," cautioned Dirco spokesperson Ndivhuwo Mabaya. He said a study or tourist visa would not do, and would probably result in detention like it did for the more than 50 South Africans released from Chinese jails in 2018 for the same offence. The department said the arrests have made an information campaign necessary because once a South African is detained over an alleged immigration violation, they could be in for a long wait. Mabaya said people jump at an opportunity for work and a chance to earn dollars, but many are duped by unscrupulous agencies and schools into leaving South Africa with the wrong visa, and a promise that it will be "sorted out" in China. READ: 'It's one big nightmare' says mom of another SA teacher detained in China He said the biggest error is to believe that a student visa also allows a person to work, or that a student visa can be changed into a work visa once in China. "We have got people in China detained for six months," he said. Currently, Redman is one of 14 South Africans detained there for the same reasons, he added. 38 days of detention and counting Redman was detained earlier this year. Her carer, Candice Erasmus, told News24 that she had completed one teaching stint already, and it had been hassle-free. This time she was offered an exciting opportunity to study Mandarin at a university in China, with the agreement that she would teach in her spare time. However, not long after her arrival she was told that her studies were taking up too much time, and she should focus on teaching. Redman became suspicious when the school occasionally told her to hide away in a room, and Erasmus advised her to pack up immediately and return home. However, before she could leave, she was detained by Chinese authorities. "It is 38 days now," said Erasmus. Erasmus said she had established through contacts in China that the school Redman was teaching at was being investigated for fraud, and that Redman might be a witness in a criminal investigation. She has also expressed frustration over not being able to get more information on Redman's well-being and felt Dirco was not doing enough to help. Limited powers Mabaya said the South African consulate general in Shanghai was rendering consular assistance and monitoring the detention of Redman within the limitations put in place by the Chinese authorities for detainees that are still under investigation. He explained that the government of South Africa had limited powers when it comes to the detention of South African nationals in foreign countries. "South Africa cannot interfere in legal processes of another sovereign country and cannot arrange for the early release of SA citizens from detention." The official position from the Chinese side is that someone in her position will be held for a minimum period of 30 days as from the date of arrest on charges of illegal employment while an investigation is being carried out. "This can include investigations into the school that employed the person. The SA consulate general in Shanghai can only request further information and the review of the continued detention after this initial 30-day period has lapsed. The Chinese are currently acting within the local laws of China. An extension of the detention period cannot be excluded," he said. Mabaya told News24 that South Africa does ask for leniency in these cases and tries to get to the court appearances. But, access to detainees is sometimes difficult because they could be held a long distance away from the South African representatives. He said that unlike in South Africa, court dates are unpredictable, and the representative might not make it across China in time, or they find that the accused had already appeared a week earlier than expected. Cold comfort In South Africa, the law stipulates that an accused must appear in court within 48 hours of arrest, and a future court date is provided at each appearance for planning purposes. He said that some people are released after two days with a fine, but it is not unusual to be detained for 90 days while an alleged immigration violation is investigated. Mabaya explained that the Chinese authorities monitor visa issues closely at English teaching schools as people from all over the world flock there in the hopes of earning money, but with the incorrect visa. He said not only are visas to China very clearly defined between work and study, but they also may limit an employee to a certain province. Some teachers unwittingly violate their visa conditions by moving to another province to be closer to friends or for a better salary. He said that eventually, the court may order that the school that hired the teacher buy the plane tickets for the deportation trip back to South Africa, or it may order that the family of the accused buys the plane ticket. But this is cold comfort for Redman's anxious carer, Erasmus. "It's a longer wait, and a longer period of not being able to speak to her," said Erasmus. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  'Scared' World Cup migrants face Russia deportation Like thousands of other Africans, Lamin came to Russia during the 2018 tournament on a "Fan ID" that allowed spectators to bypass the country's usual visa requirements. While most came purely to watch the football, others had plans to stay on and ... Kim Jong-un lookalike deported from Vietnam before summit Kim Jong-un lookalike deported from Vietnam before the real Kim-Trump summit. Speaking to the press, the Kim impersonator said he was told his visa was ‘’invalid’’ but gave no further explanation. Quick Guide to Singapore From exploring exquisite gardens and splashing out at resorts, to seeing the world from fantastic new heights and trying out all sorts of new tastes, Singapore is a tiny melting pot of many cultures with a massive offering. (Photos: iStock) Quick Guide to Mozambique Mozambique, much more than golden and white sandy beaches, prawns and peri-peri chicken, this unique African destination offers travellers a wealth of memorable experiences. (Photos: iStock) Quick Guide to Ethiopia With 90-days visa-free available to South Africans, why not plan your next Afri-Travel escape in Ethiopia. Here are the top attractions to plan around. (Photos: iStock) Quick Guide to Eswatini With visa-free available to Saffas, why not plan your next Afri-Travel escape in Eswatini, formerly known as Swaziland. Here's the key info you need to know about. (Photos: iStock) Quick Guide: Argentina With Visa-free travel available to South Africans, why not plan your next South American escape to Argentina. Here are some of the highlights you can expect to experience on your trip. (Photos: iStock) Kosovars beg EU to open their visa 'cage' Frustration is mounting among Kosovars who say they are tired of the long queues, gruelling amounts of paperwork and other "obstacles" they face in order to secure visas to enter the EU. Comparing costs: 3 budget cities to visit in 2019 South Africans are always looking for that next budget-holiday destination to explore. Here are some great ones you might want to discover! A$AP Rocky slams hip-hop response to 21 Savage detention Rapper A$AP Rocky says the hip-hop community shouldn't be laughing at rapper-producer 21 Savage, who was detained by U.S. immigration agents for overstaying his visa. Jay-Z hires lawyer for British rapper 21 Savage in visa case Atlanta rapper 21 Savage was arrested by US immigration authorities on Sunday over claims he stayed in the country illegally. He remains in custody and faces deportation. Grammy-nominated rapper 21 Savage arrested by ICE Grammy-nominated Atlanta-based rapper 21 Savage was arrested by U.S. immigration officials on Sunday, who said he was illegally in the country and a convicted felon. Quick Guide to Namibia With 120-days visa-free available to South Africans, why not plan your next Afri-Travel escape in Namibia. Here's the key info you need to know about. A travel photographer's adventure to Saudi Arabia Travel photographer Kyle Mijlof was one of the first South Africans to travel to Saudi Arabia on a type of tourist visa for a Formala E event. Meet Britain's Skype families Visa rules mean Becky, Danielle and Maegan's partners have not been allowed to live in the UK. Yemeni mother finally gets visa to visit dying son in the US Yemeni mother Shaima Swileh has finally been granted a visa waiver to visit her dying toddler in a California hospital after waiting for five months in Egypt.
#travelban #Yemen #US Shoppers feel Brexit pinch as date set for parliament vote British Prime Minister Theresa May said on Monday that she intended to re-schedule a delayed vote in parliament on her Brexit plan in the week starting on Jan. 14. As Pascale Davies reports, it comes as new data from Visa shows British consumer spend The world's most powerful passports Some say it's Japan, others say it's the United Arab Emirates. Here are the top passports to have, granting you visa-free travel to so many destinations. Quick Guide to Reunion With 120-days visa free available to Saffas, why not plan your next Afri-Travel escape in Reunion. Here's the key info you need to know about. (Photos: iStock) South Africa's biggest opportunity to grow tourism remains visa reform As the Reserve Bank hikes rates, the rand, while steady, remains hungover from a hellish year of inflation and the aggressive vat increase has yet to take its toll on consumers - yet travel and tourism remains an underutilised opportunity. Migrants facing US visa troubles turn to other countries Central American migrants arriving at the US border after a long trip across Mexico begin to consider applying for visas from other countries, ahead of possible rejection from the US. Divided by Trump's travel ban Somali refugee Nimo Hassan's family has lived without her husband in the US since his visa process stalled. Chinese investors eye apartments in affordable Athens Young property buyers from China are increasingly eyeing Athens to invest in, lured by affordable apartments and an attractive visa scheme. China's slowdown hits Wall Street Sharp slowdown in China's economy cuts into U.S. corporate profits. Visa, Mastercard settle for $6.2 bln Credit card companies and a number of U.S. banks agreed to pay $6.2 billion to settle a long-running lawsuit brought by merchants over fees. Hong Kong court gives UK same-sex couple visa Hong Kong's Court of Final Appeal gave a British lesbian couple the right to a spousal dependency visa in a landmark win for LGBT community on Wednesday. Visa card payments failing across Europe Traders complain of issues processing Visa card payments as the company's systems are afflicted by 'intermittent' problems across the UK and Europe. Morgan Freeman accused of sexual misconduct Hollywood icon, Morgan Freeman has been accused of sexual misconduct by 8 women. VISA and Translink have pulled ads featuring the actor and SAG-AFTRA is considering stripping him of his lifetime award. Actor Morgan Freeman accused of harassment: CNN CNN reports that at least eight women have accused actor Morgan Freeman of subjecting them to inappropriate behavior or harassment. Meghan Markle returns to the US for visa application Prince Harry's future wife Meghan Markle has made a brief return to the US in order to apply for a UK visa. Katy Perry 'denied visa' for Victoria's Secret show Katy Perry has reportedly been denied a visa to perform at the Victoria's Secret fashion show in China.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.