South Africans have reacted with anger and exasperation following recent stretches of load shedding countrywide. The country has been experiencing intermittent load shedding since February, with the severity of the cuts increasing rapidly over the past week. In an unprecedented move, Eskom has introduced Stage 5 to Stage 8 to the load shedding roster, although Eskom has said that this is purely a "contingency measure". Regardless of the stages, load shedding is clearly here to stay for a while, and its impact is already being profoundly felt by citizens. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. WATCH: 'We'll get it right in year or two' - Gordhan on Eskom Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan says they understand the frustration loadshedding has put on South Africans and promised that Eskom will get it right in the next few years. News24 took to the streets and social media to ask our readers how load shedding has affected them. "I don't have my normal life anymore since load shedding started,” says Matsemela Mahlatji. "I am battling to get to work on time although I leave home two hours early. Our jobs are on the line due to [lateness], which is something that we didn't anticipate because of traffic congestion in and around Johannesburg." Constantine Mombe was concerned about safety during load shedding. "You can't walk along Small Street. Criminals take advantage of the darkness and rob people. Many shops that sell food immediately close as soon as the power goes off. Many people are going to lose their jobs because small businesses are losing money due to load shedding. "Most places around Johannesburg and Braamfontein have CCTV cameras installed to assist with crime fighting, and as soon as thieves become aware that whenever there is load shedding, they don't work, crime will skyrocket," said Mombe. News24 readers on social media have also expressed similar frustrations. In the past 48 hours we havent had power for 35 hours, no ETR no communication.Our alarms backup battery has died, our gate and garage backup battery has died. Our fridge and freezer has defrosted and food has gone off. Varsity assignments have had to be done on a phone. 1/2    Do you have any tips you'd like to share? Tweet us or mail us on feedback@news24.com.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 