Sesona Ngqakamba (Supplied, Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories About 80 shacks caught fire in Alexandra,
Johannesburg on Tuesday afternoon. According to City Power spokesperson Isaac Mangena,
a pylon and overhead line, carrying about 88 kilovolts of electricity, fell on
the shacks. Mangena said the line could cause injuries and even
death. Several areas are expected to be without
electricity. "As of now, we don't know the cause of this.
We are also not sure if there are casualties. We have dispatched a team to the
area to investigate," said Mangena. @eNCA @SABCNewsOnline @tumisole @CityPowerJhb @HermanMashaba @danielmarven ALEX IS ON FIRE AGAIN @AsktheChiefJMPD pic.twitter.com/zUkbeUokAa  Johannesburg Emergency Management Services spokesperson Nana Radebe said they received the call at about 13:30. "[There were] about 20 shacks on fire," Radebe said at the time. ALSO READ: Several shacks razed as firefighters, residents fight Alex fire "For now, we cannot confirm the exact number
of shacks. We will get the clear number after we are done with the
firefighting," Radebe added. At about 17:00, Radebe said 80 shacks burnt down. She added that Disaster Management was on scene to establish the number of affected shacks. "By the way we see it now, it is plus minus 80 shacks," she said. The fire has been contained but firefighters were still busy because they wanted to ensure that it did not reignite, Radebe added. WATCH: Outpouring of support in Pretoria after 300 people left homeless following shack fires On Saturday afternoon, 62 shacks burnt down in Plastic View informal settlement adjacent to the NG Gemeente in Moreletapark, Pretoria. 'Everything that could go wrong has gone wrong in Knysna' Some 4000 people were displaced following wild fires in Knysna, Western Cape in June 2017.
About 300 took shelter at the local school hall and have been provided with food and clothing. Watch. Losing everything is heartbreaking - Vrygrond resident The City of Cape Town is conducting assessments on the fire that ravaged through Vrygrond near Muizenberg in Cape Town on Thursday night.

According to the City, the fire started at about 17:30 and up to 120 shacks were destroyed. WATCH: Fire rages through Paarl mountains Firefighters are battling a fire raging through the mountains in Paarl, Western Cape. WATCH- Aerial footage shows Lion's Head fire aftermath Aerial footage shows Lion's Head fire aftermath taken from one of the Working on fire Helicopters WATCH: Malawian gardener mourns his tragic loss after Knysna fires The last conversation Malumbo Manda had with his sister Enara the night before she sustained fatal burn wounds during the 2017 fires that engulfed parts of Knysna, she told him she wanted to return home to Malawi at the end of the year. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits. WATCH: Overstrand fire rages on Air support has been brought in to battle a large fire in the Overstrand area in the Western Cape. The fire has devastated areas close to Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els. WATCH: Betty's Bay fire victim shares heartbreaking experience of the blaze A Betty's Bay resident has spoken out about the trauma of losing her home in a fire that raged through the town at the weekend.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.