Lizeka Tandwa Sizwe Mpofu-Walsh. (Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Activist and author Sizwe Mpofu-Walsh has launched an innovative WhatsApp channel, in part to change the narrative in the coverage of the elections and shift it towards the youth. The Sizwe Mpofu-Walsh Xperience brings the youth into the political space, tackling issues such as land reform, racism and unemployment. The channel, which has already received 5 000 subscribers in the first two days of its existence, is his one-way conversation with the WhatsApp community, he said.  IT’S OFFICIAL: I’m launching SA’s 1st WhatsApp news channel for the 2019 election! And no, it’s not a WhatsApp group. ?? Welcome to The Sizwe Mpofu-Walsh Xperience. Follow for FREE - click the link using your phone. Spread the fire! Ayeye! #SMWX ????https://t.co/ipyaDp3JAi pic.twitter.com/pt4Az4mbfA  In the channel, Mpofu-Walsh will offer subscribers opinions, analyses and interviews about the election from a youth perspective. "The idea is that social media is cool but its saturated. It's a very elite audience but WhatsApp is big with young people. When you harness that technology, you have a more widespread conversation about the election that centres around young people." Mpofu-Walsh added the channel was based on his views on the election which he hopes will inspire other young people to build their platforms and start new conversations. "I'm not prophesying to be some objective observer. What I am prophesying to be, is something that is youth owned, youth built, youth run. I have my own views. I'm pro land reform, I'm deeply opposed to racism and gender discrimination. I'm going to be putting all this on the table. In a country with youth unemployment at record levels in the world. I am very keen to expose the economic inequalities. To do so in a way that is aesthetically appealing to the youth market." For lighter content, the channel will also feature music and interviews with celebrities, such as comedian Nina Hastie. LISTEN: EFF releases new Gqom track for elections "It's got to look good while containing a progressive message." Asked if the channel was affiliated to the EFF, a party chaired by his father Dali Mpofu, SC, he said: "I'm not a member of the EFF. I'm not going to apologise when my views coincide with the EFF, or with the ANC. It's not funded by the EFF. It's my platform. I have my own views." Mpofu-Walsh is the recipient of the City Press Tafelberg award for promising non-fiction, for his book Democracy and Delusion: 10 Myths in South African Politics. He was part of a student movement advocating for fee-free higher education. Mpofu-Walsh holds an MPhil in International Relations from the University of Oxford. WATCH: Political parties say they are ready for the coming elections Political parties say that they are ready for the coming elections. Speaking to News24 at the IEC elections launch at the Gallagher Convention Centre, the leaders also urged those eligible to vote to go register on January 26 and 27. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: Ramaphosa takes election campaign to Park Station President Cyril Ramaphosa, and Gauteng ANC officials, took to train stations across the province to encourage commuters to vote for the party in the upcoming national elections. PODCAST: ANC and the polls – are the party's leaders even bothered with the upcoming elections? This week on POLOTIKI, yet another ANC leader found himself in the middle of sexual assault claims, EFF leader Julius Malema takes the land question to Newcastle and we peel off another layer of the relationship between the ruling party and Bosasa. WATCH: 'Our land and jobs now!' - EFF launches election manifesto Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema on Saturday launched the party's election manifesto at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve. PODCAST: The fiery, smart, sharp and difficult Julius Malema AUDIO: This week on POLOTIKI, we're days away from South Africa's sixth national elections, but is the country excited? And EFF leader Julius Malema is in the headlines, is this a campaign tactic?   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.