Correspondent (ER24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 49-year-old woman is in a serious condition after she either jumped or was thrown from a moving minibus taxi along St Patrick's Road in Scottsville, outside Pietermaritzburg on Sunday morning. ER24 paramedics were on the scene at 05:30. Police and the Road Traffic Inspectorate are investigating the circumstances surrounding the incident, but the woman was treated on the scene and taken to Northdale Hospital for further care. ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring could not provide further details when News24 contacted him. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: 45 children tumble out of packed Nelson Mandela Bay taxi Nelson Mandela Bay Metro Police arrested a taxi driver who severely overloaded a minibus taxi on Monday, February 18. WATCH: Enterprising Joburgers 'ferry' passengers across flooded road Enterprising Joburgers came to the rescue of stranded pedestrians looking to cross a flooded street near Noord Street taxi rank. WATCH | Wife, colleagues pay tribute to metro cop killed by taxi A Durban metro police officer, who was run over and killed while on duty outside the Galleria Mall in Amanzimtoti, will be laid to rest on Monday morning. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. Taxi drivers in Madrid call off Uber battle but hope to win the war Taxi drivers in Madrid called off a 16-day protest against ride-hailing apps. Thousands protest in Madrid demanding higher pension increase Senior citizens and others say the 6% rise offered by the government is not enough Taxi drivers strike to demand halt Uber and ride-sharing services Angry Spanish taxi-drivers have been protesting against Uber and other car-apps for eight consecutive days. According to the taxi-drivers, the companies do not face the same regulations and taxes. During the protests, clashes with police occurred ... Taxi drivers' protest for regulation enters eighth day as Madrid police move in Parked taxis continued to block one of Madrid's main avenues on Monday, as part of an open-ended strike asking for regulation for the online ride-hailing sector. Cuba: public transport worsens after shared taxis reform A new reform for shared taxis in Cuba is complicating public transport on the island, with buses getting overcrowded and leaving residents unable to pay the new taxi fares. Taxi strike in Madrid enters its third day A taxi strike against Uber-like services in Madrid enters its third day just as one of the world's biggest tourism fairs opens, with hundreds of drivers protesting. Taxi drivers are also striking in Barcelona amid increasing tension with ride-hail... AP Top Stories 21 Here's the latest for Monday January 21st: Americans honor Martin Luther King Jr.; Senator Kamala Harris announces her bid for president; Turmoil continues in Venezuela; Spanish taxi drivers protest. Taxi ry beampte in Amanzimtoti dood 'n Lid van die Ethekwini-metropolisie is Vrydag dood nadat hy in Amanzimtoti deur 'n minibustaxi omgery is wat hy wou voorkeer. Uber partner Bell unveils flying taxi Uber Elevate partner Bell unveiled its first flying taxi model, the Bell Nexus, at the Consumer Electronics Show this month. The Bell Nexus is designed to carry four passengers as part of Uber's air taxi service, UberAir, which is slated to start ... Uber-Like Flying Taxi Unveiled An amazing flying taxi has been unveiled. Flying taxi takes wing in Jordan Busy Jordanians looking to quickly go from one place to the next now have an alternative to commuting through the capital, Amman's often congested roads - they can hail an "air taxi". Taxi registration at a standstill 50,000 taxis are estimated to be awaiting registrations across India. S. Korea cab drivers protest Uber-like ride share app Tens of thousands of taxi drivers in South Korea go on a nationwide strike, snarling up traffic in Seoul, in the latest protest at a planned Uber-like ride-sharing service. WATCH: Durban metro police and taxi driver get into heated argument A video of an altercation between a metro police officer and a taxi driver in Durban, is making the rounds on various social networks. 1 dood  ná taxi oor kruising jaag 1 dood  ná taxi oor kruising jaag WATCH: Taxi collision leaves 1 dead in Ballito One person has been killed following a collision between a taxi and a light vehicle in Ballito on Saturday afternoon. Watch. MAX at the Startup Battlefield Finals | Battlefield Africa 2018 MAX seeks to transofrm moto-taxi mobility in Africa using mobile apps, inclusive data-driven asset-finance, and a comprehensive driver onboarding program that uses machine learning and psychometric tests to profile drivers and create credit scores... WATCH: Aerial view of Secunda taxi strike Scores of taxi drivers in Secunda, Mpumalanga caused a traffic jam on roads moving in and out of the city centre. Jodie Foster to tackle Hollywood remake of Iceland's 'Woman at War' Jodie Foster has just signed on to star in and direct an English-language remake of Iceland's Oscars entry 'Woman at War'. Waymo starts self-driving taxi service in Arizona Alphabet's Waymo launched autonomous cabs in Phoenix, Arizona, that generate revenue. WATCH: Durban taxi driver crams 25 commuters into crowded taxi A taxi driver was fined R 5000 after he was found to have 25 passengers in his taxi in Durban last week. Minibustaxi slaan om op N2 by Kaapstad Die video van 'n taxi wat langs 'n Kaapse snelweg op sy sy lê is aan Netwerk24 verskaf. WATCH: From Soweto to the skies - entrepreneur creates 'air taxi' business The first black-owned air taxi is bringing affordable flights to more 150 airports across the country. What the CEO Thokozani Miya describes as "Uber in the air". Watch. WATCH: Wily thief nabs SABC camera equipment during #StateCaptureInquiry A wily thief on Monday allegedly stole some of the SABC's camera equipment at the #StateCaptureInquiry. She left the building with a camera bag slung over her shoulder and escaped in a taxi. Cabcharge sees revenue growth in 1Q19 22 Nov 2018 - The CEO and Managing Director of Cabcharge (ASX:CAB) has delivered his address at their AGM saying he plans to continue see growth and support taxi networks throughout Australia. All Hail! The 2019 NYC Taxi Drivers Calendar Is Here Forget the hunky firefighters and the pretty pin-ups that typically grace the pages of calendars... What is 'disruption'? It's a term used to describe innovations that have the ability to destroy entire fields. Airbnb capitalization has overtaken that of big hotel chains, autonomous cars could soon put taxi drivers out of business. Who will win, and who will lose? WATCH: Taxi driver arrested after going viral for driving on the wrong side of the road A taxi driver has been arrested after going viral for driving on the wrong side of the road to avoid traffic in Bryanston. The driver was filmed by a biker who forced him to turn around. WATCH: Pedestrian mowed down by taxi driving in the wrong lane A taxi driving on the wrong side of the road knocked over a pedestrian in morning traffic in Sharonlea, Johannesburg on Monday. WATCH: Minibus taxi smashes into Engen garage shop, injuring 2 A minibus taxi crashed into an Engen QuickShop on Saturday evening, after the driver allegedly lost control of the vehicle. He had been filling up his vehicle at the petrol station. WATCH: Brother of slain Durban businessman says they will not accept an apology "We won't accept an apology from a hitman," said the family of a Durban businessman whose murder was caught on camera in August.

Kidesh Ramjettan was killed execution style in August in a hit at his petrol station in Rossburgh, south of Durban. Ive been a bloody brat: Rishi says after meeting Robert De Niro Rishi Kapoor and his actor son Ranbir Kapoor had an impromptu meeting with Hollywood star Robert De Niro here. The Bollywood veteran was impressed by the "Raging Bull" icon's demeanour. Rishi will next be seen in "Rajma Chawal" Thousands of South Korean taxi drivers protest new carpool service South Korean taxi drivers held a rally to demonstrate against a carpooling service which they say would threaten their livelihoods and jobs. Cabcharge acquisition of MTI gets ACCC nod of approval 18 Oct 2018 - The ACCC has given the green light to the proposed $6.6 million acquisition of Mobile Technologies International by Cabcharge (ASX:CAB). Bestuurders raak slaags rondom Jhb-taxi Bestuurders raak slaags rondom Jhb-taxi Uber drivers strike in Madrid Thousands of Uber and Cabify drivers brought traffic to a stand-still on an avenue in Madrid as they protested government plans to pass a law that will regulate licenses for ride-hailing services. P2P and Telstra partner in digital taxi top delivery 18 Sep 2018 - Telstra (ASX:TLS) and fleet manager P2P (ASX:P2P) have announced a partnership to deliver one of the world's leading digital taxi top advertising solutions to the Australian market. British air taxi firm takes flight, inspired by F1 racing advances A British energy entrepreneur and one-time Formula 1 racing team owner is entering the race to build new inter-city "flying taxi" services that tap recent aerospace advances while steering clear of more fanciful blue-sky visions touted by tech-foc... British startup aims to launch air taxi services by 2022 A British startup has released footage of the UK's first electric vertical take-off and landing aircraft, as it announced plans to have an air taxi service operating short-haul flights by 2022. Hot Pink in Havana Travel to Cuba, with World Nomads’ Stephen Friedman, where he meets a lively, local taxi driver, Michael, who gives him a tour of Havana in his hot pink Buick. Japanese company takes automatic taxi out for test drive ahead of 2020 Olympics Japan tests its automatic taxi, which it hopes will ease preassure on the already stressed industry ahead of the 2020 Olympics. Michelle Hennessy reports Cohen investigated for $20 mln in loans: NYT According to the New York Times, U.S. President Donald Trumps' former personal lawyer Michael Cohen is being investigated for $20 million taken out in loans. Nebraska carries out 1st U.S. execution using fentanyl The execution of Carey Moore in Nebraska marks the first time any state in the U.S. has used fetanyl in a lethal injection. Taxi strike targeting Uber brings chaos to Spanish cities Spanish taxi drivers are blocking streets in major cities including Barcelona and Madrid, in a bid to pressure the government to curb licenses to online ride-hailing apps like Uber. Taxi passenger left unconscious in the street by driver CCTV shows an incident on Fenchurch Place where a man is pulled from a taxi by the driver. He hit his head as he was dragged by his feet from the vehicle and was left injured in the middle of the road.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.