Lizeka Tandwa PODCAST: ANC and the polls – are the party's leaders even bothered with the upcoming elections? This week on POLOTIKI, yet another ANC leader found himself in the middle of sexual assault claims, EFF leader Julius Malema takes the land question to Newcastle and we peel off another layer of the relationship between the ruling party and Bosasa. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former Eastern Cape ANC treasurer and MEC Thandi Marawu has defected to the African Transformation Movement (ATM), because of the teachings of her church. Marawu, who up until May 2018 was in the Eastern Cape Cabinet as public works MEC, said she joined the ATM, in line with the instructions of Twelve Apostles Church of Christ leader Caesar Nongqunga. "As the time goes, the problem that is in the ANC - factionalism, killing of comrades - when the chief apostle noticed this, he tried to have a meeting with ANC leadership. "He looked at the ANC and asked himself if the ANC was following God's law. The answer was a big no. They are killing each other, fighting each other. God would not forgive us if we continue supporting the ANC," she said. Marawu was part of a group of disgruntled ANC heavyweights in the province who challenged the validity of the 2017 Eastern Cape provincial conference, dubbed the "festival of chairs" by President Cyril Ramaphosa. She lost her position in the provincial Cabinet shortly after the election of Oscar Mabuyane as party chair. Marawu was part of a faction that supported Premier Phumulo Masualle for a third term. Also read: Mzwanele Manyi abandons ‘tired’ ANC for ATM "Everyone knows there was no conference in the Eastern Cape. My treasurer report on the situation said that if the ANC was a party of peace, that conference would have been dissolved. Being an MEC will never get you anywhere. I am not against the ANC. I still love the ANC. It's the people that are leading it," she said. In response, Sanco provincial secretary Tony Duba said Marawu was part of a group of "sojourners" who were bitter after losing at the conference. "Our determination is that the same people were funding the troublemakers in the province," Duba said. Marawu added that some high ranking ANC provincial leaders and former leaders were in the process of defecting to the ATM. She is the second Eastern Cape political heavyweight to move to the ATM. Former DA provincial leader Veliswa Mvenya joined ATM last year. This after she lost out to Nqaba Bhanga at the DA's provincial elective conference. WATCH: Political parties say they are ready for the coming elections Political parties say that they are ready for the coming elections. Speaking to News24 at the IEC elections launch at the Gallagher Convention Centre, the leaders also urged those eligible to vote to go register on January 26 and 27. WATCH: Ramaphosa takes election campaign to Park Station President Cyril Ramaphosa, and Gauteng ANC officials, took to train station across the province to encourage commuters to vote for the party in the upcoming national elections. 'It's time for a new political order' - De Lille announces new political party Former Cape Town mayor and DA member Patricia de Lille says she is ready to serve her country under a new political movement. Inside the ANC's Bosasa election war room Bosasa sponsored these war rooms for the past three elections for the ANC, at an estimated cost of R2-million per election. WATCH: ANC hails 'selfless leader' Mama Kotane as she celebrates 107 years ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule on Tuesday hailed stalwart Mama Rebecca Kotane at her 107th birthday celebration in Soweto. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). 'That's hogwash!'- Pule Mabe on accusations of intimate relationship with former PA ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe, who is currently on leave from that role pending the outcome of the inquiry of sexual harassment claims, strongly denied claims that he and his former assistant had an intimate relationship of sorts in the past. PODCAST: The fiery, smart, sharp and difficult Julius Malema This week on POLOTIKI, we're days away from South Africa's sixth national elections, but is the country excited? And EFF leader Julius Malema is in the headlines, is this a campaign tactic? WATCH: DA leader Mmusi Maimane talks Solly Msimanga's future in the DA Although DA leader Mmusi Maimane refuses to commit to a number, when it comes to the party's ambitions ahead of the general elections next year, he makes it clear he has his eyes set on Gauteng.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.