Canny Maphanga Paramedics treating commuters in Boksburg. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Rail commuters in Gauteng can expect a 60-minute delay on Wednesday due to a derailment on the Elandsfontein to Tembisa route on Tuesday afternoon. "At approximately 16:05 on Tuesday afternoon, a Metrorail train travelling from Elandsfontein to Tembisa derailed at Elandsfontein station with one middle motor coach and a plain trailer coach. "Metrorail would like to inform all loyal commuters and employers about an anticipated train service delay of up to 60 minutes due to the availability of only three lines instead four for train operations," Metrorail spokesperson Lillian Mofokeng said. ALSO READ: Several commuters injured in Boksburg train accident Approximately 19 commuters suffered minor injuries as a result of the derailment. "They were attended to by the emergency services at the accident scene and sent to…hospitals in the area for further treatment," Mofokeng explained. Board of inquiry They have all since been discharged from hospital. No Metrorail staff were injured. On Tuesday, peak train services operating between Johannesburg and Pretoria, and Johannesburg and Leralla, were delayed by up to 120 minutes "due to the availability of only 2 out of 4 lines". Metrorail will establish a board of inquiry into the cause of the incident. Metrorail technical teams were reported to be on site to clear the scene shortly after the derailment. "The extent of the damages, time of recovery and related costs are not known at this stage. "Furthermore, once the derailed train has been cleared, the technical team will then begin with repairing the damages on the affected line," Mofokeng said.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Emergency personnel working to free people trapped under collided trains At least three people have been confirmed dead, while scores of others have been left injured following a train collision at Mountain View station, Pretoria on
Tuesday morning. WATCH: Trains collide at Mountain View station in Pretoria One person has been confirmed dead, while scores of others have been left injured following a train collision at Mountain View station, Pretoria on Tuesday morning. WATCH: #UniteBehind to launch #DelayRepay campaign at Cape Town Station #UniteBehind is set to launch #DelayRepay, a campaign to demand better rail service and compensation in cases of continued delays, later on Thursday. WATCH: Ramaphosa takes election campaign to Park Station President Cyril Ramaphosa, and Gauteng ANC officials, took to train stations across the province to encourage commuters to vote for the party in the upcoming national elections. 'Our rail system has gone to the dogs' - DA protests at Prasa offices The Democratic Alliance held a picket outside the offices of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA) in Hatfield, Pretoria on Wednesday. WATCH: Tshwane mayor visits Pretoria train crash victims' families Tshwane Metro Mayor, Solly Msimanga, visited two families of the deceased from last week's Mountain View train accident.
Msimanga expressed his condolences and offered support with the funeral arrangements. WATCH: Train up in flames in Mayfair Two carriages of a passenger train caught fire at Mayfair Station, west of Johannesburg on Sunday. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. WATCH: Ekurhuleni is the 'engine of economic growth' - Ramaphosa at launch of train plant President Cyril Ramaphosa has described Ekurhuleni, where the official launch of a  multi-billion rand train manufacturing plant was held, as the engine of economic growth in the country. The plant is expected to deliver two new trains by December 20   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.