Alex Mitchley Minibus taxis park at a rank in Sandton. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Two men accused of extorting money from spaza shop owners and taxi drivers will have to wait a while before they can apply to be released on bail. This, after it emerged in the Pretoria Magistrate's Court on Monday that the State needed more time to prepare for the bail hearing of Elias Skhosana and Stemer Monageng. Skhosana and Monageng have been charged with extortion and intimidation. In court on Monday, the State asked for more time to prepare, saying that information pertaining to previous convictions, outstanding warrants and pending cases were still outstanding and had to be verified. Exclusive: Net closing in on taxi boss who allegedly terrorised Mamelodi community But Skhosana 's advocate Solomon Mkhabela and Monageng's lawyer, Mpesi Makhanya, opposed the State's request and called it a travesty of justice. Mkhabela rubbished the State's submissions, telling the court that it only takes 30 minutes to obtain the information and that the police know where Skhosana lives. Makhanya also submitted that the police knew his client's address and that other particulars could be easily obtained. However, Magistrate Mali Mokoena granted the postponement. The men are expected to appear in court again on March 15. Other arrests News24 previously reported the net was closing in on the Mamelodi taxi boss after several of his associates were arrested in a sting operation. While Skhosana was arrested in Pretoria East and Monageng in Bronkhorstspruit, four other men were arrested in Midrand for possession of illegal firearms and contravention of the Private Security Industry Regulation Act, according to police. The four men appeared in the Alexandra Magistrate's Court on Monday. In a statement, police spokesperson Brigadier Mathapelo Peters said further arrests could not be ruled out and that there was a possibility the men could be linked to other crimes. She added that the arrests came after a ministerial imbizo and a visit to Mamelodi. Police Minister Bheki Cele launched the Crime Combat and Reaction Team for Mamelodi on March 1.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.