Canny Maphanga and Sesona Ngqakamba PODCAST: ANC and the polls – are the party's leaders even bothered with the upcoming elections? This week on POLOTIKI, yet another ANC leader found himself in the middle of sexual assault claims, EFF leader Julius Malema takes the land question to Newcastle and we peel off another layer of the relationship between the ruling party and Bosasa. "Preposterous and nothing short of a product of an over-active imagination" were the words the ANC used to respond to the EFF's claims that it established an "underground unit" to vandalise and remove its billboards. "The ANC has championed the rule of law since the dawn of democracy and created a rules-based electoral system where political parties subscribe to a code of conduct. The ANC is firmly committed to the Electoral Code of Conduct and will not tolerate conduct by any of its members which is at odds with this code," the party said. READ: ANC gambles on Twitter influencers On Friday, EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said: "Over the past two days, two strategically placed billboards of the EFF have been victim to this criminal unit, driven by political envy and intolerance." WATCH: EFF MP slaps security official at Parliament The Economic Freedom Fighters were caught in yet another scuffle at Parliament on Thursday, when one of their MPs assaulted a security official. Two incidents The political party said there were two incidents - one on the R21 south, between Olifantsfontein and a garage in Oakmoor - and the second at the Nhlazani railway station in Soweto. The EFF claimed that the act exposed the governing party as "uninterested in a clean and peaceful campaign driven by democratic principles of political contestation enshrined in our Constitution". It further lambasted "racist whites" in Tshwane for allegedly participating in similar activity. "The EFF is targeted by both the hooligans of the low self-esteem driven ANC and the fools in right-wing white, racist formations. "Earlier this year, our posters were being vandalised and targeted by the racist whites in Pretoria, who were moving around under the cover of the night to undermine our rights to freedom of expression and political belonging by removing EFF manifesto launch posters," Ndlozi added. "Those who resort to such tactics must ultimately be disqualified from standing for elections. Thus, as soon as we have collected our evidence, we shall approach the Electoral Court to act decisively on the politically intolerant ANC," Ndlozi said. Dirty tricks But ANC acting national spokesperson, Dakota Legoete, said the ANC's campaign was focused on reaching out to every voter and communicating its manifesto commitments of growing South Africa into a society where a better life for all was realised. "Dirty tricks have never been part of the ANC campaign and we will not take kindly to such conduct wherever it rears its ugly head," Legoete added. It advised the EFF to approach law enforcement with the evidence it claimed it had. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: What would the Ramaphosa-Malema-Maimane band be called? If President Cyril Ramaphosa formed a band with EFF leader Julius Malema and DA leader Mmusi Maimane, what should it be called? WATCH: 'Our land and jobs now!' - EFF launches election manifesto Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema on Saturday launched the party's election manifesto at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve. WATCH: 'EFF is the only alternative' - supporter at manifesto launch Hundreds have filled Giant Stadium in Shoshanguve, north of Pretoria ahead of the Economic Freedom Fighters manifesto launch. WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). WATCH: Political party 'slaughters' watermelon on Cape beach in video stunt A small political party has staged a mock sacrifice of a watermelon on a Cape Town beach in response to the slaughter of a sheep in December. EFF-lid klap man ná staatsrede 'n Video waarin Marshall Dlamini, EFF-LP, glo 'n man klap omdat die EFF-lede nie die voorportaal van die Nasionale Vergadering kon verlaat nie is wyd op sosiale media gedeel. Ramaphosa: I will sing Masekela's 'Thuma Mina' if EFF win in May South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa jokingly says that if the Economic Freedom Fighters win elections in May, he will sing Hugh Masekela's song 'Thuma Mina' in Parliament. Ramaphosa was delivering his last state-of-the-nation address ahead of... EFF-LP hou sitstaking ná skool kinders weier Nazeer Paulsen, EFF-LP, hou 'n sitstaking by die Laerskool Strandfontein nadat dié skool twee leerlinge toelating geweier het. Annaleen Lombart is een van die leerlinge se ma. Video: Jaco Marais S.Africa's EFF party supporters arrive ahead of Manifesto launch Supporters of South Africa's far-left Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) arrive at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve, Pretoria, ahead of the party's manifesto launch. EFF skel op joernaliste in hof EFF-lede het joernaliste en die familie en ondersteuners van Pieter Doorewaard en Phillip Schutte Maandagoggend in die hooggeregshof in Mmabatho gekoggel en gedreig. Hul vonnisverrigtinge weens die moord op Matlhomola Moshoeu (16) in 2017 in Coligny, EFF nader hof oor wet Die EFF het vandag die hooggeregshof in Pretoria gevra om dele van die Wet op Oproerige Vergaderings ongrondwetlik te verklaar. Floyd Shivambu, die EFF se adjunkpresident en parlementslid, het die media ná die hofaansoek toegespreek. WATCH: EFF supporters storm Vodacom stores Self-declared members and supporters of the EFF, many in EFF T-shirts, attacked at least two Vodacom stores over the weekend. EFF-ondersteuners bestorm Vodacom-winkel Vodacom in Mall of the North in Polokwane is na bewering Sondagoggend deur EFF-ondersteuners bestorm, meubels en goedere is omgegooi en werknemers en klante het vinnig agter in 'n kantoor gaan wegkruip terwyl dit gebeur het. WATCH: Malema lays charges against Pravin Gordhan EFF leader Julius Malema opened a case of money laundering and corruption against Public Enterprises minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan files criminal charges against Malema Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan filed criminal defamation, crimen injuria and incitement of violence charges against EFF leader Julius Malema on Monday. EFF vs ANC: 'Ons maak moord hier! Video: Charles Smith WATCH: Pravin Gordhan wraps up his testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day3 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan wrapped up his testimony at the judicial inquiry into state capture sitting in Johannesburg on Wednesday. Watch. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan wraps up his testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day3 / Part1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan wrapped up his testimony at the judicial inquiry into state capture sitting in Johannesburg on Wednesday. Watch. WATCH LIVE: Julius Malema addresses the crowd outside #StateCaptureInquiry EFF leader Julius Malema addressed the crowd outside the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture where Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan was testifying. WATCH: EFF demonstrates for second day at #StateCaptureInquiry Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday continued with his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, as the EFF demonstrated outside for a second day in a row. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day1 / Part3) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: Pravin will destroy Eskom and SAA in order to privatise them - EFF The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) staged a picket outside the State Capture Inquiry on Monday calling for the removal of Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Public Enterprises. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day1 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day 1/Part 1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: 'Pravin lied to our people' – EFF While Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg on Monday, the EFF made its presence known, protesting outside the venue. LAND REFORM: The exact moment resolution to amend Constitution is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. WATCH: Singing in chamber as resolution that Constitution be amended is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. Land expropriation: EFF says it's race issue; DA questions process Court action to prevent Parliament from amending the Constitution to allow for expropriation without compensation seems imminent as parties opposing an amendment to section 25 all sang from the same hymn sheet. WATCH: Julius Malema on changing the constitution regarding land expropriation On 13 November in parliament, during the first day of the Joint Constitutional Review Committee deliberating a draft report on the possible review of Section 25 of the Constitution to allow expropriation of land without compensation. WATCH: Debonairs Pizza shop threatened with closure over working conditions A video has surfaced of social activist and former EFF Students' Command leader Mpho Morolane embroiled in a heated exchange with a Debonairs franchise owner. WATCH: EFF expected to address VBS claims The Economic Freedom Fighters will on Tuesday address the media on the VBS Mutual Bank report released by the South African Reserve Bank last, titled The Great Bank Heist. WATCH: 'VBS looters, pay back the money' - DA, EFF in war of words President Cyril Ramaphosa's last oral reply for the year came to an abrupt halt when the DA and EFF exchanged insults in Parliament. Watch. WATCH: Gigaba apologises for pinky finger gesture Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba has apologised unreservedly for making a gesture with his pinky finger at an EFF MP during Parliament's volatile sitting on Tuesday. WATCH: Malema mocks Gigaba? 'We are not playing with ourselves, we are playing music' A video of Julius Malema is circulating on social media in which the EFF leader seemingly mocks Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba. KYK hoe EFF debat oor kostes ontwrig. Teboho Mokwele, EFF-LP in die Nasionale Raad van Provinsies, het Donderdag Chris Hattingh, DA-LP, se debat oor datakostes ontwrig. WATCH: 'Pay back the money' - MP's jeer at EFF's Floyd Shivambu in ironic turn of events EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu found himself on the receiving end of MP's jeering in Parliament on Tuesday, when he was heckled to "pay back the money" during a debate on the VBS Mutual Bank scandal. WATCH: EFF in heated brawl at East London Hungry Lion franchise Police have opened a case of assault following a scuffle between members of the Economic Freedom Fighters and staff at a Hungry Lion outlet in East London.

The incident took place on Friday. Die EFF het geen rede om in Floyd Shivambu te twyfel nie. Julius Malema, leier van die EFF, het Dinsdag gesê die party het geen bewyse gevind dat sy adjunkpresident, Floyd Shivambu, geld van VBS Mutual Bank ontvang het nie. MyCiti-stakers sê hulle moet in toilethokkies eet Die EFF het Dinsdag by stakers van die MyCiTi-busdiens aangesluit en aangedring dat die Kaapse metroraad na hulle eise kom luister. Werkers van die busdiens staak sedert Maandag en wag steeds op Brett Herron, burgemeesterskomiteelid vir vervoer, om h EFF lei stakende MyCiTi-werkers na munisipale kantoor EFF lei stakende MyCiTi-werkers na munisipale kantoor 'Let all land belong to the state' The radical EFF opposition party has called for expropriation of land without compensation to redress the imbalance in land distribution in South Africa.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.