Ntwaagae Seleka Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi. (Mduduzi Ndzingi, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Three Grade 8 pupils have been suspended from Fons Luminis Secondary School in Diepkloof, Soweto, for allegedly raping a fellow pupil on Friday. The three were suspended on Tuesday morning, following a meeting between MEC for Education Panyaza Lesufi, parents and members of the school governing body (SGB). The three who have not been arrested were seen leaving the school premises accompanied by the parents. The incident took place in De Deur, Vaal on Friday evening, during a school induction camp arranged for Grade 8 pupils only. Lesufi said the purpose of the school trip was to inculcate the culture of the school into the Grade 8 pupils, where boys and girls were placed in separate rooms. "The victim went to the boys' room and asked to see a specific boy to smoke hubbly bubbly. The incident then took place. Later, when confronted by teachers, two of the boys confirmed about taking part in the incident [rape]." Lesufi confirmed that a case was opened by the teachers. "Teachers then reported the matter to the De Deur police station where a case [of rape] was opened. However, the case was then transferred to Diepkloof police station because at De Deur, police didn't have a rape kit. The docket has since been returned to the De Deur police station for investigations," said Lesufi. READ: Gauteng pupil arrested for allegedly raping another pupil The department has dispatched social workers to the school. Lesufi earlier addressed all Grade 8 pupils about the incident. "What happened on Friday is ugly and bad. I am very embarrassed by the incident. I think you are still young. I thought you were there to learn the culture of the school and understand it. "I am proud of your teachers and the principal. I have been here earlier to honour you for your hard work and discipline. I was told that some of you wanted to smoke something on that day. I am disappointed. I have instructed some officials to take samples of what you wanted to smoke for examinations to determine what it was," he said. Lesufi addressed Grade 8 pupils in the school. He pleaded with them to protect the victim and ensure that the girl is safe in the school (@ntwaagae)  MEC Panyaza Lesufi said three male pupils who allegedly raped another learner have been suspended from the school (@ntwaagae)  Police arriving at Fons Luminis Secondary School in Diepkloof in Soweto, where three Grade 8 pupils allegedly raped a fellow pupil on Friday (@ntwaagae) pic.twitter.com/dj1otck7ID  We are disgusted ?? Our thoughts are with the girl. We will provide all the support and care. As for the boys ....... pic.twitter.com/6wXaX5zIbr  Lesufi then warned pupils against inappropriately touching each other, saying that such behaviour will not be tolerated. "You touch a girl learner wrongly, you will leave this school. You also touch a boy learner wrongly you will leave this school. We don't have boyfriends and girlfriends in this school. We want ensure that everyone is safe here. The SGB has decided to suspend the three boys and we will continue to support them until we know what happened," said Lesufi. The MEC pleaded with all pupils to ensure that the survivor feels safe in the school and that she is not victimised. "Please support the victim. Don't take her pictures and distribute them. Don't treat her like an outcast. She deserves to be supported. Please don't badmouth her, she is part of this school and deserves to treated with respect," pleaded Lesufi. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter PODCAST | Justice Denied: 13 years for a rape he didn't commit Think back on the past 10 years and the many things you've done. Now imagine losing more than a decade.This is what happened to Njabulo Ndlovu. One summer's evening in 2002 his life changed in ways he could not have imagined. Jennifer Haynes speaks outside court after her father pleaded guilty to multiple counts of rape Jennifer Haynes speaks to reporters outside Downing Centre District Court in Sydney after her father Richard Haynes, 74, pleaded guilty to multiple counts of rape and sexual assault against her when she was a child.
"I'm thrilled that my father fi... EXPLAINER: George Pell to face pre-sentence hearing Australia's highest-ranking Catholic George Pell will face court for a pre-sentence hearing after being found guilty of molesting two choirboys in 1996, as Pope Francis refrains from coming down hard on the convicted child molester. Cardinal George Pell found guilty of child sexual abuse Australian Cardinal George Pell, who helped elect popes and ran the Vatican's finances, has been found guilty of sexually assaulting two choirboys. #GeorgePell #Catican #ChurchSexAbuse #CatholicChurch Most senior Catholic charged with abuse convicted Cardinal George Pell, the most senior Catholic cleric ever charged with child sex abuse, has been convicted in Australia of molesting two choirboys. Top Vatican cleric Cardinal Pell convicted of child sex crimes Cardinal George Pell arrives at an Australian court. The third-ranking official in the Vatican, has been found guilty of child sex crimes in Australia, becoming the most senior Catholic cleric ever convicted for child sexual abuse. Lawyers on both sides of R. Kelly case react to not guilty plea The lawyer for several alleged victims and the lawyer for R. Kelly discuss the charges of aggravated criminal sex abuse to which the R&B star pleaded not guilty. Michael Avenatti says it is "outrageous" to suggest alleged victims are lying about t... Avenatti says 2nd R. Kelly tape shows sex assault of a minor Lawyer Michael Avenatti says he gave prosecutors a second video tape that allegedly shows R. Kelly engaging in the sexual assault of a minor. The R&B superstar pleaded not guilty to 10 counts of aggravated criminal sex abuse against four victims, ... Pope hosts summit on abuse where cardinal admits files destroyed Pope Francis continues to host a landmark summit at the Vatican on fighting child sex abuse where a top Catholic cardinal admits that Church files on priests accused of sexually abusing children were destroyed or never even drawn up in a move whic... R. Kelly charged with 10 counts of sex abuse Cook County State Attorney Kim Foxx on Friday announced 10 counts of sexual abuse against singer R. Kelly involving four victims, three of whom were allegedly minors at the time. Thousands rally to end India's rape shame stigma Thousands of people attend a rally in the Indian capital to shine a light on victim blaming in rape and sexual assault cases, something campaigners say allows perpetrators to get off scot-free. NSW police say two women were raped by 20-year veteran of the corrections while in custody NSW Police detail the charging of a corrections officer over the sexual assault of two female inmates in 2016 and 2017. A 20 year veteran of the corrections industry, Wayne Astill, 62, was charged with 12 counts against the two women, that police call an abuse of power. ShowBiz Minute: R Kelly, Mystikal, Ribeiro Avenatti says he has new video evidence against R. Kelly; Louisiana Rapper Mystikal free on $3M bond in rape case; Feds tell Alfonso Ribeiro he can't copyright "Carlton" moves. French minister reacts to online harassment scandal French Junior Minister for Gender Equality Marlene Schiappa reacts to the secret media group known as "League of LOL", which was exposed for harassing women colleagues online. The affair is being dubbed the "French media's #MeToo", with Liberation... RAW: jack de Belin leaves court, denies rape charge NRL star Jack de Belin leaves Wollongong's Local Court after pleading not guilty to the rape of a woman in a Wollongong unit. The 27-year-old was charged with aggravated sexual assault in company after the alleged attack on a 19-year-old woman n the early hours of December 9. Today in History for February 10th Highlights of this day in history:  a Cold War prisoner exchange; boxer Mike Tyson convicted of rape; Arthur Miller's 'Death of a Salesman' opens on Broadway; Bob Dylan's 'The Times They Are a Changin'' released. Facility to close after rape of disabled patient An Arizona long-term healthcare facility will shut down after a severely disabled patient was raped, a crime that only came to light after she gave birth. Salute courage of women who came forward: Shatrughan Sinha on #MeToo Actor-turned-politician Shatrughan Sinha on Wednesday said that he appreciates and applauds women who have come out with their stories of sexual harassment and rape, during the #MeToo movement, with guts and courage. Liam Neeson's film premiere cancelled amid racism row The New York premiere of Liam Neeson’s new film has been cancelled after the actor confessed to seeking out a black man to beat up following the rape of his friend. Suspect pleads guilty in care center rape A nurse accused of raping an incapacitated woman who later gave birth at a long-term care facility in Phoenix has pleaded not guilty to a sexual assault charge. The hearing for Nathan Sutherland Tuesday only lasted a few minutes. Two French police officers sentenced to seven years in prison for rape of Canadian tourist Two French police officers sentenced to seven years in prison for rape of Canadian tourist French court to rule on police accused of tourist rape Two French policemen from an elite anti-gang unit who stand accused of raping a Canadian tourist face their final day of trial in Paris. Judge approves changes to Weinstein's legal team A judge signed off Friday on changes to the legal team representing Harvey Weinstein in his rape and sexual assault case, allowing the film producer to swap out his New York City defense attorney for a team that's full of courtroom star power. Harvey Weinstein appears at court to change legal team A judge has signed off on changes to the legal team representing Harvey Weinstein in his rape and sexual assault case. Weinstein appeared briefly in a New York City courthouse on Friday to get Judge James Burke to approve the changes Weinstein in court to replace legal team Harvey Weinstein arrived at a New York City courthouse for a judge to formally sign off on changes to his legal team in his rape and sexual assault case. Weinstein's defense attorney Benjamin Brafman is being replaced by four new lawyers. Ex-Scottish leader faces attempted rape charges Former Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond says he is "innocent of any criminality," after being arrested and appearing in court on Thursday. Scottish ex-leader claims innocence on attempted rape charge Scotland's former  leader and pro-independence figurehead Alex Salmond claims he is innocent "of any criminality" as he is charged with attempted rape and other sexual assaults, according to Scottish prosecutors. Singer Chris Brown released from custody in Paris US singer Chris Brown has been released from custody in Paris. The rapper was detained earlier after a woman filed a rape complaint, according to police officials. Chris Brown denies rape after arrest and release U.S. Singer Chris Brown has denied rape allegations in a social media post, following his arrest and release in Paris. No charges have been brought against him. ShowBiz Minute: Brown, Baldwin, Clinton Chris Brown released from police custody following a rape complaint; Alec Baldwin due in court over parking dispute; Chelsea Clinton expecting third child. Chris Brown arrested in Paris over rape allegation Chris Brown has been arrested in Paris following a rape accusation, along with two other men, one of whom is believed to be his bodyguard. Thousands protest in Ecuador against sexual violence Thousands demonstrate in Quito to show opposition to violence against women, after two recent incidents in Ecuador — a gang rape and a killing of a woman in a street. South Korea sport hit by #MeToo movement South Korea will hold its largest ever investigation into sexual abuse in sports after two-time Olympic champion, Shim Suk-hee, accused her former coach of sexual assault. British sailor ‘relieved’ after acquittal in gang rape case Darren Smalley, a British sailor accused in an alleged gang rape case at a Halifax-area military base, expressed relief after his acquittal Friday. A Crown lawyer said the court found the complainant’s testimony was not credible. Allegri - Ronaldo calm following police DNA request Juventus coach Massimiliano Allegri says Cristiano Ronaldo is "very calm" amid the latest developments in an alleged rape case involving an American woman. Ronaldo is being asked by police to provide a DNA sample in an investigation of the allegat... DNA Videographic on DNA. Police in the US have asked football star Cristiano Ronaldo to submit a DNA sample as part of their investigation into an accusation of rape made against him. Las Vegas police seek soccer star Cristiano Ronaldo's DNA in rape investigation Police in Nevada ask Italian authorities to get a DNA sample from Portuguese soccer star Cristiano Ronaldo in the investigation of accusations that he raped a woman a decade ago in Las Vegas. Paul Gascoigne pleads not guilty to sexual assault Former England footballer Paul Gascoigne will defend himself against a sex assault charge by saying he has a propensity to kiss people "in a non-sexual manner", a court heard.

The 51-year-old was arrested while travelling on a train between York ... Alok Nath granted anticipatory bail in rape case Actor Alok Nath was on Saturday granted anticipatory bail by a court here on Saturday in an alleged rape case filed by writer-director Vinta Nanda. The forgotten children of the Bosnian war Rape as a tool of war was widely used in Bosnia and Herzegovina from 1992 to 1995, and somewhere between 2,000 and 4,000 children were born from it. Often referred to as the "Children of War", they continue to face many obstacles even today.
#Bosn... Kevin Spacey seen for first time since sexual assault accusations Disgraced actor Kevin Spacey has just been spotted in public for the first time since he was accused of sexual assault last year. El Salvador frees woman jailed under abortion law A Salvadoran woman accused of the attempted murder of her newborn baby under the country's strict abortion laws after she was raped by her stepfather was freed on Monday after more than 18 months in jail. El Salvador frees woman charged with murder over premature birth A judge in El Salvador acquits a rape victim who was originally charged with murder after giving birth prematurely in a toilet, in what is seen as a landmark case by women's rights groups. Salvadoran woman charged with murder over premature death freed Imelda Cortez, a 20-year-old Salvadoran rape victim originally charged with murder after giving birth prematurely in a toilet, leaves court after being acquitted. Faith healer accused of sexual abuse turns himself in A Brazilian faith healer who was accused of sexual abuse by more than 300 women has turned himself in a day after being officially ruled a fugitive. Padma Lakshmi reflects on speaking out about her sexual assault Padma Lakshmi says she stands by her decision to write a New York Times op-ed about being raped as a teenager. The 'Top Chef' host spoke while promoting a contest to choose this year's must-bake holiday treat. WATCH: Courtney Pieters' killer gets two life sentences for her rape, murder The Western Cape High Court has sentenced Mortimer Saunders to two life sentences for the rape and murder of 3-year-old Courtney Pieters. Nobel peace prize shines light on rape in conflict Congolese doctor Denis Mukwege and Yazidi activist Nadia Murad, a survivor of ISIS sexual slavery, stand up against sexual violence in conflict, and challenge the world to combat rape as a weapon of war, ahead of receiving the Nobel Peace Prize. 'I was actually sleeping... it's rape' An "alarming" proportion of adults in Great Britain remain confused about what constitutes rape, campaigners say. Harvey Weinstein hoping new witness leads to dismissal of New York criminal case Harvey Weinstein’s attorney is reportedly counting on a new female witness to help the embattled movie mogul beat his remaining sexual assault charges in New York.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.