Canny Maphanga Prof Bonita Meyersfeld (Lawyers against Abuse (LvA)) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Department of Public Safety launched the ‘Women Safety’ campaign, in partnership with the University of Johannesburg on Wednesday, to teach women students self defence. Watch. 

WATCH South African human rights lawyer Bonita Meyersfeld will be appointed a Knight of the National Order of Merit by France for her work addressing gender-based violence. The award will be bestowed upon Meyersfeld by the ambassador of France to South Africa, Christophe Farnaud, at the French residence in Pretoria on Tuesday. This is in recognition of her 20 years of work against gender-based violence in South Africa. "The appointment recognises Professor Meyersfeld's role in conceptualising and establishing Lawyers against Abuse (LvA), a non-profit organisation based in the informal settlement of Diepsloot, South Africa. "Founded in 2011, LvA provides a cutting edge and unique service to victims of gender-based violence, integrating legal and psychosocial services to ensure that we travel the journey to justice and recovery with our clients," LvA executive director Lindsay Henson said in a statement on Thursday. Also read: Gender-based violence: a continuum through womxn's lives LvA's work includes providing legal and psychological support to more than 850 victims, assisting 528 clients with protection orders, supporting 163 clients pursuing criminal cases and providing more than 1 000 therapy sessions to 286 clients. "LvA's model works. We see meaningful, long term and successful support to hundreds of women and children resulting in a level of access to justice that is unprecedented. "It is this model that Meyersfeld initiated, together with a remarkable team of founding members. We are thrilled about the recognition by the French president," Henson added. Meyersfeld says the recognition is a testament to thousands of survivors of gender-based violence. "The Chevalier is testimony to the thousands of heroes who survive gender-based violence; to the powerful women who founded LvA; and to the women in our centre who work every day to make LvA the sanctuary and place of justice it is today," she said. This is what it takes to be a women in MICE Women and their role within the Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Events (MICE) industry took centre stage at a business breakfast at Meetings Africa 2019 WATCH: Fighting unemployment and creating hope one stitch at a time Unemployment and the suffering on women in the rural communities of the Karoo in the Eastern Cape gave birth to Blankets from Africa. Ramaphosa steals show at summit: 'We need leadership, not leaders' South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. SA women create beautiful handbags from Toyota car seats and waste material Toyota has found a way to reduce its monthly landfill waste by donating all its waste seat cover material to Esikhumulweni Cooperative Limited to be transformed into all kinds of wearable accessories. SAA Salutes Women's Month With an All-female Crew From SA to Brazil - HIRES.mp4 The shortage of women in key position in the aviation sector is very much a reality, with SAA highlighting the issue with an all-women crew flight from South Africa to Brazil.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.