Jenna Etheridge WATCH: Political parties say they are ready for the coming elections Political parties say that they are ready for the coming elections. Speaking to News24 at the IEC elections launch at the Gallagher Convention Centre, the leaders also urged those eligible to vote to go register on January 26 and 27. (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Shortly after the close of business on Wednesday, South Africans will know which political parties will appear on their ballot papers. The Electoral Commission of South Africa (IEC) said on Tuesday that only those registered political parties which had paid their deposits and submitted candidate lists by 17:00 on Wednesday would be allowed to contest the national and provincial elections on May 8. Parties have to pay a deposit of R200 000 for the national ballot and R45 000 for each provincial ballot. These deposits are refunded if parties win at least one seat in each legislature they contest, failing which, the money is forfeited to the National Revenue Fund. WATCH: 10 million eligible voters are unregistered - IEC Almost 10 million South Africans who are eligible to vote are not registered, the Independent Electoral Commission said on Wednesday. Read: This is what it costs to contest SA elections Around 34 parties indicated their intention of contesting, according to the IEC. By 09:00 on Tuesday, 22 political parties had paid their deposits and 12 had submitted candidate lists - processes which were largely done electronically using an online system. Once the deadline had passed, the electoral commission would have a week to advise parties of non-compliance with candidate lists. This had to be rectified by March 25. An increasing number of political parties have contested elections. In 1999, 16 parties were on the national ballot. This increased to 29 parties in 2014. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Ramaphosa takes election campaign to Park Station President Cyril Ramaphosa, and Gauteng ANC officials, took to train stations across the province to encourage commuters to vote for the party in the upcoming national elections. PODCAST: The fiery, smart, sharp and difficult Julius Malema AUDIO: This week on POLOTIKI, we're days away from South Africa's sixth national elections, but is the country excited? And EFF leader Julius Malema is in the headlines, is this a campaign tactic? PODCAST: ANC and the polls – are the party's leaders even bothered with the upcoming elections? This week on POLOTIKI, yet another ANC leader found himself in the middle of sexual assault claims, EFF leader Julius Malema takes the land question to Newcastle and we peel off another layer of the relationship between the ruling party and Bosasa. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: Political party 'slaughters' watermelon on Cape beach in video stunt A small political party has staged a mock sacrifice of a watermelon on a Cape Town beach in response to the slaughter of a sheep in December. WATCH: IEC hails new law to ensure transparency in political party funding President Cyril Ramaphosa signed the Political Party Funding bill into law on Tuesday. South African elections set for May 8: president South Africa will go to polls on May 8, President Cyril Ramaphosa announces as he set out his stall for the election in a state-of-the-nation address focused on reviving the economy. Ramaphosa: I will sing Masekela's 'Thuma Mina' if EFF win in May South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa jokingly says that if the Economic Freedom Fighters win elections in May, he will sing Hugh Masekela's song 'Thuma Mina' in Parliament. Ramaphosa was delivering his last state-of-the-nation address ahead of... Voting underway in Estonia's general election Voting is underway in Estonia's general election. The ruling centre-left coalition is fighting for survival, challenged by its traditional liberal rival but also a far-right party boosted by a backlash from mostly rural regions in the Baltic euroz... Democracy, DPRK style: North Korea holds 'election' North Korean leader Kim Jong Un's ruling Workers' Party has an iron grip on the country, but every five years it holds a so-called election for the rubber stamp legislature, known as the Supreme People's Assembly. And in keeping with one of Pyongy... Estonia election results and migrants detained Take a look back at this morning's top stories from around Europe. A shadow hangs over Netanyahu as election looms Israel's Benjamin Netanyahu continued with his business as usual on Friday, just a day after the country's attorney-general announced plans to bring three corruption charges against him.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.