Russel Molefe, Correspondent Minister Bheki Cele speaking at the funeral service of Thoriso Themane. (Supplied, SAPS Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories National Police Minister Bheki Cele has instructed investigators to dig deeper into the case of Thoriso Themane who was murdered, allegedly by a group of pupils in Polokwane, Limpopo, last weekend. Cele was trying to make sense of the connection between six teenage pupils arrested in connection with the murder, and three adult suspects, all aged 36. Themane's blood body was discovered in a street in Flora Park, Polokwane, last weekend. The children, in Grades 9 and 10, were arrested on Tuesday while the three men were arrested on Thursday night. Cele was speaking at the funeral of Themane, 28. Also in attendance was Premier Stan Mathabatha, top national officers and other dignitaries in Polokwane on Saturday. "I’m trying to find the links between a 16-year-old and a 36-year-old. I hope we are not starting to see the emergence of gangsterism [in Limpopo], because that should be left to the Western Cape," Cele said. Read: 'It's a pain you can't explain' - father of mob murder victim Thoriso Themane To applause, he said: "I will be speaking to the prosecution authorities and make a special request that there must be a significant and severe punishment of the perpetrators of this heinous crime. #PoliceMinistry Minister of Police, Mr Bheki Cele, Premier of Limpopo, Mr Stanley Mathabatha, MEC for Safety, Security and Liaison Makhurupetje, Dep Nat Comm Lt Gen Mgwenya and Prov Comm Lt Gen Ledwaba in Polokwane for funeral service of 28-year-old Thoriso Themane. SW pic.twitter.com/pFtGZ3iGA7  "There is this thing that if you are underage, you must be released to your parents. If you can commit a crime at that particular age, it means your parents can’t take care of you." Mathabatha also spoke of the need for a severe punishment of those responsible: "I did not know up to now that it was possible for an underage [accused] to get [a] maximum sentence." He urged parents to be involved in the day-to-day lives of their children. Also read:10-year prison sentence for pupil who killed his teacher Themane, who played drums in a music band, was travelling from a rehearsal session when he was confronted by a group of pupils who then beat and kicked him last Saturday. He succumbed to his injuries the following day. A video of him being carried by a group of people had been circulating on social media. In a tribute at the funeral, his father, Pastor MJ Themane, described him as a "responsible young man". The suspects are to appear in court on Monday.  WATCH: Gift of the Givers brings Christmas cheer to families of slain police officers Gift of the Givers and Minister Bheki Cele brought Christmas cheer to families of slain police officers on Tuesday.
The families of the 96 officers killed in the line of duty in 2018 were given food parcels and wheelchairs. WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. WATCH: Bheki Cele visits family of Gift of the Givers volunteer killed in gang shooutout Police Minister Bheki Cele paid a visit to the family of Ameerodien Noordien, the Gift of the Givers volunteer who was killed in gang crossfire in Hanover Park, Cape Town. WATCH: Ramaphosa responds to the call for an intervention in Cape Flats gangsterism President Cyril Ramaphosa and Police Minister Bheki Cele formally launched the anti-gang unit in an effort to disorganise and disable the criminal economy linked to gangsterism in Hanover Park and surrounding areas. WATCH: 'Edna Molewa's life was one of sacrifice, selflessness and service'  - Cyril Ramaphosa An official funeral service for the late Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa was held in Pretoria on Saturday.

President Cyril Ramaphosa delivered the eulogy at the Tshwane Events Centre. WATCH: Two 'high-ranking gangsters' among mourners at Pete Mihalik's funeral The funeral of slain Cape Town lawyer Pete Mihalik was held at the St Mary's Cathedral on Saturday. WATCH: Tshwane mayor visits Pretoria train crash victims' families Tshwane Metro Mayor, Solly Msimanga, visited two families of the deceased from last week's Mountain View train accident.
Msimanga expressed his condolences and offered support with the funeral arrangements. WATCH: Khabisi Mosunkutu remembered at emotional memorial service The memorial service of ANC stalwart Khabisi Mosunkutu was held on Friday at Pimville,Soweto. The 69-year-old former MEC passed away on Monday after battling with his health for some time. WATCH: HHP's family ask for privacy as they mourn his death The family of hip-hop star HHP confirmed his death to media gathering outside his house. In a statement read out to reporters on the scene the family asked for privacy. WATCH | Wife, colleagues pay tribute to metro cop killed by taxi A Durban metro police officer, who was run over and killed while on duty outside the Galleria Mall in Amanzimtoti, will be laid to rest on Monday morning. #ReleaseMartha: Son of murdered husband threatens to take matters into own hands Relatives of Martha Marumo's deceased husband say if she receives a presidential pardon for the murder of Clitus Marumo, "something is going to happen".   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.