Duncan Alfreds Lion. (file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The lion missing from the Karoo National Park near Beaufort West has been tracked close to the town of Sutherland. "It's now near Sutherland on the south-west part," Reynold "Rey T" Thakhuli, SANParks general manager for media, PR and stakeholder relations, told News24. READ: Missing Karoo lion takes trackers, rangers as far as the Northern Cape The male lion, estimated to be between two and four years old, went missing on February 15, and ranger and tracker teams have been working shifts to track it down. Sutherland is situated in the Northern Cape, about 300km from the Karoo National Park. "The lion is about 42km from Sutherland. This lion is misbehaving; it's becoming a tourist," said Thakhuli. READ: High-tech helicopter, drone to help find missing Karoo lion '4 sheep in this latest massacre' Following the kill of an eland two weeks ago, the lion has now taken down a number of sheep, Thakhuli added. "After the eland there was one sheep, and now four sheep in this latest massacre. He must have been hungry." Bidvest Protea Coin recently assisted the search effort by providing its high-tech helicopter equipped with forward-looking infrared cameras. A four-person team was deployed for three days, but failed to find the predator. SANParks also has its own helicopter on standby. Thakhuli said that it was too early to report on the cost of the operation. "We didn't really quantify it, because it's three days. The search is obviously costing us money – we can't say how much at the moment." 'These young lions are full and energy' He expressed hope that the team was close to finding the lion, as tracks became visible after fresh rains. "They are following new tracks now, because it has rained in the area and there is new spoor," said Thakhuli. "When I get updates from the park, I hope every time that this will be the day that we find the lion." The last lion to hold the record for the longest disappearance was 4-year-old Sylvester in 2016. He managed to evade capture for two weeks. "These young lions are full and energy," said Thakhuli. "It's really tough for us, but we will find it." Follow @Duncan025 KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Czech man attacked and killed by lion he kept as pet A Czech man was mauled to death by a lion he illegally kept as a pet. Two lions collide in epic impala-hunting fail In the history of the animal kingdom, there is an idea that only the lionesses hunt. This isn't so true. WATCH- 35 Zimbabwean baby elephants are awaiting export to foreign zoos Humane Society Africa says these 35 Zimbabwean baby elephants are awaiting export to foreign zoos.
 They say these animals are destined for China, over 11 000kms away. Kruger buffalo flicks lion into air like a toy The predator – which looks like it's in dire need of a meal – was asleep when a buffalo charged at it and flipped it into the air before chasing it off. Survivor recounts battle against mountain lion Bashing a mountain lion in the head with a rock didn’t work, so Travis Kauffman changed his tactics and suffocated the cat by jamming his foot on its neck. Kauffman recounted the attack in a news conference 10 days after the attack. Man recounts battle against mountain lion Travis Kauffman was running a trail in the mountains west of Fort Collins, Colorado, when he was attacked by a mountain lion. Tiger killed by potential mate at London Zoo Female Sumatran tiger Melati has been killed by her potential new mate Asim on their first introduction at ZSL London Zoo. Colorado jogger strangles mountain lion after attack A Colorado jogger strangled a juvenile mountain lion in the foothills of Horsetooth Mountain northwest of Denver, acting in self-defense after the predator attacked him, authorities said on Tuesday. Colette Luke has more.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.