The Ethics Committee of Parliament is guilty of dereliction and disservice to Parliament, says Correctional Services deputy minister Thabang Makwetla in response to the committee's Friday verdict, which found Makwetla guilty of breaching the parliament's code of ethics for his non-disclosure that facilities and management company Bosasa, which is now known as African Global Operations, installed security infrastructure at his home, earning himself a 30-days salary fine, and would be reprimanded in the House when it reconvenes. Makwetla on Saturday hit back at the committee, questioning the "due diligence exercised by the committee on the matter, and the soundness of its conclusions". "It is obvious that the rules of natural justice were not adhered to. In this respect, i intend writing to the chair of the committee to express my displeasure and to insist that justice be done, without fear or favor, on account of a disciplined and balanced evaluation of all the facts at hand on this matter (or at their disposal)," Makwetla said in a statement. READ: Deputy correctional services minister wants to appear before state capture commission Former Bosasa employee Richard le Roux testified in February that he was tasked with installing security upgrades at various ministers' and government officials' homes, such as Mineral Resources Minister Gwede Mantashe, Environmental Affairs Minister Nomvula Mokonyane, ANC MP Vincent Smith and Makwetla. That testimony may have been a contributing factor in Makwetla's guilty verdict. Makwetla said he now agrees with DA Chief-whip John Steenhuisen's remarks in his end of term speech, that the committee "has not always discharged its mandate diligently over this (past 5 year) period". "The conclusions of the committee seem to have literally ignored or disregarded [carte blanche], all the information and supporting documents placed before it pertaining this matter," said the deputy minister and ANC MP. Makwetla said that he finds it shocking that hardly a week after he was asked to submit within 48 hours supporting documents to corroborate his account of events on the security installations, the committee appears to have discarded his submission and proceeded to "arbitrarily pronounce me guilty". The deputy minister insists that he has brought forth evidence that he has persistently resisted to accept a benefit that would create a direct conflict of interest and has since last year made that evidence available for the committee. "I take serious the oath of office of Public Representatives of the Republic. I still pledge my unwavering loyalty to this commitment," concluded Makwetla. 