Canny Maphanga WATCH: IPID denies timing of Phahlane's arrest is 'suspicious' Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) Spokesperson Moses Dlamini has denied allegations that Khomotso Phahlane's arrest was a show for the media. Former acting police commissioner Khomotso Phahlane is seen n the Specialised Crimes Court. (Lerato Sejake, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former acting police commissioner Khomotso Phahlane has been granted bail of R20 000. He appeared briefly in the Johannesburg Commercial Crime Court on Friday, following his arrest earlier in the morning on new charges stemming from an Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) investigation into an R86m blue lights tender. Phahlane's lawyer argued that the arrest of his client was nothing but "a show of the media". "Your Worship, if you take a look, the media are here in numbers. I submit that this is the modus operandi of IPID, this is a set up," Piet du Plessis argued. BREAKING: Phahlane arrested on new charges linked to R86m blue lights tender Phahlane was accompanied by Major General Ravichandran Pillay, the head of South African Police Service's supply chain management, who was also arrested on Friday morning. Pillay is facing charges relating to a 2016 tender awarded to Instrumentation Traffic Law Enforcement, owned by millionaire Vimpie Manthatha, News24 reported earlier. Phahlane further submitted in his affidavit that the decision to arrest him a day after Parliament resolved not to extend McBride's contract as IPID head was "suspicious". "The matter reeks of ulterior motives and an attempt at point scoring by McBride and IPID as well as their cohorts frantically trying to bolster his efforts to be reappointed. "Parliament has clearly found that he is not a fit and proper person to lead IPID," he said. Baseless allegation IPID spokesperson Moses Dlamini said the allegation that IPID was putting on a show for the media was "baseless". "This is not a show to make McBride to look good. They were arrested today and McBride left yesterday, therefore there is no correlation."The argument has no merit," he told the media outside the court. Pillay, who was also granted R20 000 bail, and Phahlane will return to court on March 29. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: IPID probe case of police brutality after woman's arrest The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) is investigating a case of police brutality after a Pretoria West woman was pulled by her hair and violently shoved into a police van. WATCH: Robbers make off with woman's phone, bag as she walks in Muizenberg SAPS confirmed that a case of robbery was reported at Muizenberg police station on Tuesday 19 February 2019. The incident allegedly occurred on 9 February at approximately 07:40. WATCH: Closing arguments in Rohde trial - was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband Jason violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? DOCUMENTARY | News24 takes you inside the cult that captured an Eastern Cape community News24 sent a team of journalists to Ngcobo in the wake of deadly shootings between police and members of a confirmed cult. The team spoke to the cult leaders, families of victims, law enforcement and cult experts to piece together the story. WATCH: Agrizzi, van Tonder and Gillingham appear in dock The Hawks on Wednesday arrested six suspects on allegations of corruption, money laundering and fraud relating to Bosasa. A warrant of arrest has been issued for a seventh suspect. Whistleblowers should still come forward says Hawks after Bosasa arrests ormer Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi, former correctional services CFO Patrick Gillingham, and Bosasa official Andries van Tonder, on Wednesday briefly appeared in the dock at the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.