Naseema Barday Two puppies with ears cut off rescued in Blomeside, Bloemfontein. (Supplied: Duán Matthee, Bloemfontein SPCA) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Two puppies were rescued from a house in Bloemside, Bloemfontein, during a community support project on Monday after their ears were cut off. The Bloemfontein SPCA said it caught a 13-year-old boy "red-handed" while one puppy's ear was being cut off. The community support project takes place every second week. "We go into informal settlements to go and help people with animals," said Bloemfontein SPCA inspector Duán Matthee. "We help these people care for them (the animals). We came across these dogs with their ears cut off." Petrified One of the puppies – a white German Shepherd and Labrador crossbreed – was found lying in a very dirty area behind the house. The Bloemfontein SPCA examined the puppy and found that it was extremely malnourished and had lost both its ears. There was also a rubber band tied around its tail which caused pain. The second puppy – a Staffy Cross dog – was found on another part of the property and one of its ears had been cut off. The puppy appeared neglected and malnourished. "It is hard to imagine what the boy may be capable of as he grows older. Irrespective of his age, however, animal cruelty remains animal cruelty. It is a criminal offence," Matthee said. "It is sad and upsetting to see a 13-year-old boy doing such horrendous – and criminal – deeds. We do hope he gets help as it's hard to imagine the pitfall of crime he may fall into as he grows up." Animal cruelty case opened Police assisted the Bloemfontein SPCA with the matter and the boy was detained. The SPCA confiscated both dogs and took them to the vet for immediate medical attention. A case of animal cruelty has been opened against him. The animals are currently being treated at the SPCA in Bloemfontein. One of the puppies received infection treatment. A white German Shepherd and Labrador Crossbreed recovering after both ears were cut off. (Supplied: Duán Matthee, Bloemfontein SPCA) "They are doing fine. They are on strong antibiotics to treat the infection, but they are up and healthy," said Matthee. "We are going to put them up for adoption in about a week or two weeks, depending on the condition of the dogs but [the condition's] improved."  A Staffy Cross dog recovering after one ear was cut off. (Supplied: Duán Matthee, Bloemfontein SPCA)   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH Hundreds of flamingo chicks admitted to SANCCOB for life-saving rehabilitation Over 2 000 abandoned and distressed flamingo chicks were jetted all over South Africa this week as part of a series of mercy flights from Kimberley after their habitat came under threat due to water problems. VIDEO: Police, SPCA say these monkeys probably didn't escape from hijacked vehicle Two separate videos of a monkey jumping between homes and one casually strolling about have emerged on social media. Officer frees trapped dog, gets instant thank you A video of a Chilean police officer rescuing a dog that became tangled in a tarp has gone viral. Footage of the Sunday rescue was captured at a home in San Felipe, which is about 56 miles northwest of Santiago. Malnourished children found locked in dog kennel Deputies discovered two malnourished children crammed into a locked dog cage and two more smeared with excrement in a North Texas barn. Two malnourished kids found in dog cage in Texas A Texas sheriff says deputies responding to a domestic disturbance discovered two young, malnourished children locked together in a dog cage while two others also were found malnourished. WATCH: Pet dog dies in Sea Point apartment block blaze A Sea Point apartment was destroyed in a high-rise fire that was put out before it spread to the rest of the building on Wednesday. Dog rescued after falling from cliff in Swanage The RNLI rescued a dog from the sea after it fell from a cliff in Swanage, Dorset. Dog rescued in Brazil dam collapse disaster Rescuers save a dog as they work overnight searching for around 300 people missing after a dam collapse at a mine in southeast Brazil killed at least nine, but the local governor said "odds are minimal" that they would be found alive.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.