Ashraf Hendricks, GroundUp WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. Minister of Police Bheki Cele on a walkabout of gang torn Lavender Hill on Friday. Photo: Ashraf Hendricks Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Police Minister Bheki Cele did a walkabout of Lavender Hill on Friday morning to hear the concerns of residents, GroundUp reports. Supported by Western Cape police commissioner Khombinkosi Jula and National Police Commissioner General Khehla Sitole, Cele had, in addition to his personal security, a number of police on foot, in vehicles and about eight police on horses accompanying him. "I want to know why the minister is only coming now," said resident Ridwaan Abrahams. Once the minister had left, he said it was "back to normal". WATCH: Ramaphosa responds to the call for an intervention in Cape Flats gangsterism President Cyril Ramaphosa and Police Minister Bheki Cele formally launched the anti-gang unit in an effort to disorganise and disable the criminal economy linked to gangsterism in Hanover Park and surrounding areas. "Shooting goes on. Gangsters do what they want. Drug lords do what they want. We're living in fear. They (the police officials) are sleeping nice at night." Abrahams has lived in Lavender Hill for 27 years. His wife, three children and four grandchildren stay with him. Highest number of gang-related murders "You can't send your children to the shop. You must be careful when they go to school in the morning. There is no free South Africa for us." Abrahams said that he was not going to vote in the May elections. The Western Cape has the highest number of gang related murders in the country. By the end of February over 40 people had been killed in gang-related violence this year in Bonteheuwel and Mitchells Plain alone. Resident Jennifer Erasmus told Cele: "We can't go out, even in the morning. You don't know if you're going to come home alive." Erasmus said her sons were raped and forced to join a gang. She no longer has contact with them. After talking to the minister, Erasmus was given the telephone numbers of police officials. She said she was thankful that Cele had come. Lindsay Langeveldt said the father of her baby was accused of being a gangster, chased and gunned down after visiting his parents' home. "But he wasn't," she said. "He was just a barber." 'We need to look at violence prevention' "Violence is complex," says Valdi van Reenen-Le Roux, executive director of the Trauma Centre for Survivors of Violence and Torture. She says it cannot be solved by policing alone. "SAPS is merely reacting." What needs to be addressed, she said, is the systemic, psychological, religious, cultural and structural context. "Things like exclusion, poverty and the [legacy of the] Group Areas Act... exposure to violence at home, in the streets, at school and on TV," she said. "All we see are these scoundrels. We don't actually go and look at what is behind this," said Van Reenen-Le Roux. "Gang violence arises out of the need to have economic survival. It's about an alternative economy. "Instead of simply reacting to the violence, we need to be looking at violence prevention," she said. "How can we continue to spend these billions of rands on child safety, countering violence, and still see no tangible progress?" After the walkabout, Cele told the media that the complaints he heard were about safety, a lack of personnel at the police base camp, and not enough street lighting. Cele said that the commissioner and he will be looking to rectify this. He said that the provincial commissioner identified key hotspots where the anti-gang unit would be stationed for longer times. One of those areas is Lavender Hill. Lavender Hill has long been a hotspot for gang violence. Quick Guide to Macau Whether you wish to wish to live-out your Game of Thrones fantasy by visiting the various fortresses or chill out in lush Macanese gardens with a good book - in Macau you have these options. Why not plan a trip to magical Macau? (Photos: iStock) BMW, Daimler team up to take on Uber BMW and Daimler are joining forces on car-sharing and ride-hailing in a bid to compete with Uber. Sting sings in support of GM workers Sting performs selections from his musical “The Last Ship,” as well as the Police songs “Message in a Bottle” and “Every Breath You Take,” at the Tribute Communities Centre in Oshawa, Ont., in support of GM workers. Quick Guide to Palestine As much as Palestine has been steeped in an ongoing, war-torn land conflict, it is a country rich in history, culture and life-changing tales. (Photos: iStock) Why We Need to Make Good Processed Food Can we create meals that are both satisfying and enjoyable, but more convenient and better tailored to our physical needs? Glenn Zorpette thinks so. Parents of woman murdered by boyfriend 'let down' by Sussex Police The parents of Susan Nicholson, murdered by Robert Trigg in 2011, say the police 'failed them' in the investigation into her death. Pope sends gift to woman thrown from horse The police woman, whose horse was startled during Pope Francis' visit to Chile, is recovering in hospital. The unlikely police experiment Eric Garner's death provoked protests. Could it also help improve relations between the police and public? Blac Chyna and Kid Buu reportedly split after police are called during violent fight Blac Chyna and her boyfriend Kid Buu have reportedly split up after a violent fight during their Hawaiian getaway which led to the police being called. Biker get smashed! A fight between a biker and a driver is stopped by the police. Puppy rescued from icy lake The dog has a new owner - the police diver who saved her life. Blac Chyna receives second police visit within 24 hours Blac Chyna reportedly received a second home visit from the police over a dispute with her make-up artist. Police ask for more resources for Brexit The police are asking for 300 additional officers. Jagmeet Singh calls for an end to random police checks NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh says random police checks are too often aimed at people of colour and should be banned. Singh says he's been stopped by the police multiple times throughout his life. White woman who blocked black neighbor fired A white woman who blocked her black neighbor from getting into his St. Louis apartment building has been fired by her employer who saw viral video of the incident, posted on Saturday night. Shawn Mendes feels he needs to 'prove' he's not gay Canadian pop star Shawn Mendes feels a need to prove he's not gay. Barry Gardiner: We need change in government not Tory leader Barry Gardiner MP says the country needs to see a change in government. John McDonnell: We need a change of government John McDonnell says the country needs a change in government. How to check if your car needs an oil change Oil is integral to keeping your car in good condition - here's how tell if you need an oil change. Cars set ablaze in Nantes clashes Police and protesters clashed in Nantes for a third night over the police shooting of a young man. Charged and Disbarred - Part 6 Sylvia Stolz is a German lawyer convicted of denying the Holocaust. Suzuki Cup to blame for exit says Vietnam Japan captain Yoshida Maya said his side need to ''improve a lot'' if they want to win the AFC Asian Cup, after their 1-0 win over Vietnam to advance to the semi-finals on Thursday at the Al Maktoum Stadium, Dubai, in a match that saw the Video As... We must improve say Japan as they reach OF Japan captain Yoshida Maya said his side need to ''improve a lot'' if they want to win the AFC Asian Cup, after their 1-0 win over Vietnam to advance to the semi-finals on Thursday at the Al Maktoum Stadium, Dubai, in a match that saw the Video As... Claude Puel wants to "look forward" with winger Riyad Mahrez After the match against Manchester City, Leicester boss Claude Puel says that the Foxes need to look forward with winger Riyad Mahrez. Democrats' 'mindless resistance' to Trump The Democratic Party needs to negotiate with Republicans if they want to get things done says Joe Lieberman. Quick Guide to Madagascar The only place in the world where lemurs can be found, Madagascar is a beautiful island that welcomes travellers with true grit. (Photos: iStock) Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. Quick Guide to Singapore From exploring exquisite gardens and splashing out at resorts, to seeing the world from fantastic new heights and trying out all sorts of new tastes, Singapore is a tiny melting pot of many cultures with a massive offering. (Photos: iStock) 'Scary clown' rapper jailed after brandishing shotgun at police A drill rapper who donned a scary clown mask and brandished a shotgun from a stolen BMW during a police chase has been jailed for 23 years, together with three fellow gang members. Arkansas white supremacists accused of brutality Federal prosecutors are accusing a white supremacist gang in Arkansas of silencing witnesses to its meth-trafficking with brutal tactics, including permanently disfiguring one person's face. Top 10 Things We Need to See in Frozen 2 Do you want to build a sequel? For this list, we’re taking a look at plot details and character arcs we wish to see explored in the long-anticipated sequel to “Frozen.” How Wormholes Work Do you want to instantly travel to another place? Time? Or even Dimension? Then, wormholes could be exactly what you need... If they definitely existed, of course. There still isn't any solid proof that these things are actually 'out there', but the theories behind them are pretty incredible! "Business as usual" for low risk festivals: NSW Premier NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian speaking to reporters in Kogarah on Monday says organisers of low risk festivals do not need to worry about proposed licensing laws.
For low risk festivals it's "business as usual", she says.
"We just want to make sure those high risk festivals that have seen people die, or sustain injury are actually complying to the law." Felix Klein: "Zero tolerance for anti-Semitism" "If you want to have an impact in our society, you need to be aware of our history and our special sensibility as far as anti-Semitism is concerned," says Germany's anti-Semitism commissioner in The Interview on DW. DUP want to deal with 'toxicity' of backstop Arlene Foster says the backstop needs to be dealt with "in a very clear way" Hunting Lost Cities from Space If you want to find lost cities or the traces of ancient civilizations, Sarah Parcak believes you need to head into space. NEW SHOW FOR BRAVO FANS! Are you a Real Housewives or Vanderpump Rules fan?  Well, Fernando and Mariam are HUGE fans and they love talking about the shows, arguing about them, and laughing their heads of!  Do you want to join us as we talk about our favorite moments, our favorite fights, and everything Bravo?  

Also, we need your help picking a name.  We have two choices "Clip Bait" and "Flip It" but we're open to any ideas you have!  Just let us know in the comments below!

#Bravo, #RealHousewives, #wwhl Giraffes become world's most gifted voyeurs as cheetah 'threesome' plays out Another extraordinary mating ritual recorded on camera, this time in the Kalahari. Quick Guide to Zimbabwe Rich in wildlife and nature experiences, bursting with African pride and welcoming of all people, Zimbabwe offers more than just a safari getaway – it offers a slice of an authentic African experience. (Photos: iStock) UK needs to 'deliver on the Brexit referendum' says trade minister Liam Fox There's one message British trade minister Liam Fox wants everyone to know: the UK must "deliver on the (Brexit) referendum." WATCH: Gift of the Givers brings Christmas cheer to families of slain police officers Gift of the Givers and Minister Bheki Cele brought Christmas cheer to families of slain police officers on Tuesday.
The families of the 96 officers killed in the line of duty in 2018 were given food parcels and wheelchairs. Death of blogger shows ominous side of 'Gang TV' The murder of a trailblazer in a new genre only online news in which videographers go into high-crime areas to interview street gangs has jolted the community of gangland reporters nationwide. Quick Guide to Thailand With friendly and fun-loving citizens, a historic and culture-rich society and balmy weather great for aquatic adventure - Thailand offers the traveller an exceptional, smile-filled time in Southeast Asia. (Photos: iStock) WATCH: Bheki Cele visits family of Gift of the Givers volunteer killed in gang shooutout Police Minister Bheki Cele paid a visit to the family of Ameerodien Noordien, the Gift of the Givers volunteer who was killed in gang crossfire in Hanover Park, Cape Town. Watch: 'Things are very bad' — Venezuelan crisis through the eyes of a 7-year old Euronews sat down with 7-year-old Josmeli at an affordable housing complex built by Nicolas Maduro’s administration. 

She told Euronews the situation in Caracas is“very bad” because “some are fighting to enter the country and destroy it.” Defining Principles Behind Govt Reform India needs to get out of stigma of unfairness and corruption and all reforms are done to help those who want to create wealth.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.