Annelene Oberholzer Who would've thought that crashing a bicycle into a set of rugby poles would turn you into an overnight internet sensation? But thanks to the hilarious mishap, 19-year-old Marelize Horn from Windhoek is a household name. Well, when prefixed with an expletive, as her mother Heidi (48) did while filming the incident.  The nasty crash didn't put Marelize off cycling. The newbie cyclist is still fine-tuning her skills - as a new video shot by her sister Wilmari (21) shows. WATCH: 'My f*k, Marelize...' - reaction to girl riding bike into rugby posts has people in stitches A video of Namibian Marelize Horn, 19, crashing her bicycle into rugby poles has been going viral, not so much because of her lack of co-ordination, but mostly owing to the reaction of her mother. ALSO READ:  Wilmari shared another of her little sister's bicycle adventures with YOU, in which poor Marelize manages to crash again. "Turn a little at the trees and then take a big left turn," Wilmari can be heard while filming Marelize ride up a street. But, oh f*k, Marelize turns right! "What don’t you understand? No, what are you doing?" Wilmari exclaims. Then she shouts: "Stop, oh f*k!" Meet accident-prone Marelize in the upcoming issue of YOU's sister magazine Huisgenoot, out Friday 8 March.  WATCH: 'Ho, ho, whoooa!' - NSRI to the rescue as Santa slips and stumbles off boat A jolly Santa Claus managed to do what he does best at a beach in Cape Town this weekend, putting smiles on many children's faces in a rather unexpected fashion. WATCH: Oh beer! Crates of alcohol crash out of beer truck in Cape Town It was unhappy hour for a truck driver who lost a huge load of beer after attempting to turn his vehicle in South Africa on Friday. WATCH: South African farmers have built the first floating solar park in Africa Western Cape farmers have built Africa's first commercial floating solar park – that now let's them tackle load shedding and drought. They say it's a better investment than a new orchard. WATCH: Zille's biggest achievements in her own words Outgoing Western Cape Premier Helen Zille spoke about her 10 year term on the side-lines of a rally to launch the Democratic Alliance's manifesto at the Bellville Velodrome on Sunday. Proteas call up a 'dream come true' for Anrich Nortje Warriors bowler Anrich Nortje says he was surprised to receive his 'dream' call up to the Proteas one-day squad for the first three ODIs against Sri Lanka. PODCAST: ANC and the polls – are the party's leaders even bothered with the upcoming elections? This week on POLOTIKI, yet another ANC leader found himself in the middle of sexual assault claims, EFF leader Julius Malema takes the land question to Newcastle and we peel off another layer of the relationship between the ruling party and Bosasa. WATCH: IPID denies timing of Phahlane's arrest is 'suspicious' Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) Spokesperson Moses Dlamini has denied allegations that Khomotso Phahlane's arrest was a show for the media.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.