Jan Gerber Albie Sachs: We haven't got Africa back An architect of South Africa's constitution says there has been little change in land ownership. Former ConCourt Judge Albie Sachs gives input at the Constitutional Review Committee's colloquium on land expropriation without compensation. (Paul Herman, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former Constitutional Court Justice Albie Sachs described amending Section 25 of the Constitution, to allow expropriation without compensation, as a "great moment" in South Africa's history. "It is painful. It has to be disruptive. The status quo is not satisfactory," he told the Ad Hoc Committee to Amend Section 25 of the Constitution on Friday morning. Sachs said the Constitution was drafted to be an "entrenched Constitution" that won't be easily amended. Read: Land: Whatever you decide, it must be reviewable, Albie Sachs tells MPs "We wanted it to be there in fair weather and bad weather," he said and cautioned against a rushed amendment. He added that he was a "little alarmed" when he saw the amendment had to be completed before the end of this term. He said there were two ways in which the Constitution could be amended. You can have a "very laconic amendment" where just a few words are amended, or you can have an amendment which acknowledges that it is a significant moment in the country's history and reflects this. Such an amendment would have a preamble. Sachs favours such an amendment. He said the preamble would be an important guide to what the intention of the amendment is. The drawback would be that the drafters will fight over every word, Sachs warned.  "This not just a technical change [to the Constitution]. This affects the nation." He said the process must also enable nation building. "The first step to nation building is to acknowledge the tension." He said it shouldn't only be acknowledged as a fact, but "from the heart". Also read: The nightmare 'land' situation we must avoid at all cost Former tourism minister Valli Moosa said when the Constitution was drafted, Section 25 wasn't included to protect white people's land ownership. He said it was included after much debate as one of the most painful things about apartheid was how black people were removed from their land without compensation. He also called on the committee to ensure that South Africans understood what it was busy with. Moosa, who was closely involved with the drafting of the Constitution, also warned against rushing the amendment. The committee is expected to meet again this coming Friday to hear from more experts. Zuma on land: Less debate, more nationalisation Former President Jacob Zuma said there is too much debate about land expropriation without compensation to his liking, and suggested that land should be nationalised. LAND REFORM: The exact moment resolution to amend Constitution is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH: Ramaphosa handing over 4 586 hectares of land to a KZN community President Cyril Ramaphosa handed over more than 4000 hectares of land to the KwaMkhwanazi community in Empangeni, northern KwaZulu-Natal on Sunday. Land expropriation: EFF says it's race issue; DA questions process Court action to prevent Parliament from amending the Constitution to allow for expropriation without compensation seems imminent as parties opposing an amendment to section 25 all sang from the same hymn sheet. WATCH: Julius Malema on changing the constitution regarding land expropriation On 13 November in parliament, during the first day of the Joint Constitutional Review Committee deliberating a draft report on the possible review of Section 25 of the Constitution to allow expropriation of land without compensation. WATCH: High Court instructs government to draft a plan for District 6 restitutions Since the Restitution of Land Rights Act 22 of 1994 came into effect our government has failed to provide adequate restitution to the people of District Six - as well as having violated their constitutional  rights. WATCH: Rural community wins right to reject mining on their land The Pretoria High Court has ruled that the minister of mineral resources will have to get consent from the Xolobeni community prior to granting mining rights on their land. WATCH: Our approach to land expropriation will be to enhance property rights - Cyril Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed the 25th annual Investing in Africa Mining Indaba at the Cape Town International Convention Centre on Tuesday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.