Pelane Phakgadi Unisa students close the Sunnyside campus on Tuesday. (Alex Mitchely) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Unisa Sunnyside students have joined protests across the country, voicing their dissatisfaction about NSFAS allowances and a decision to move exams forward. The South African Students Congress and the EFF Student Command are also protesting the university's decision to bring examination dates forward - from May to April. #Unisa Student organizations SASCO and the EFFSC have organized students to also demonstrate against the University's decision to move closer the examination dates from to April. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/WKT3Rp3ShV National Student Representative Council secretary Amukelani Ngwenya said "students are on a serious shutdown until their demands have been met". "According to policy, students should receive their study material 15 weeks before their examinations, and as we speak, not everyone has received the material, and those who have, have only done so recently," said Ngwenya. READ: Unisa vice tells SABC panel Nzimande's son was hired fairly Unisa spokesperson Martin Ramotshela confirmed that the institution had made the decision, so that examinations would be complete before the general elections. "We are meant to use the same venues for our examinations, which the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) is also meant to use for election," said Ramotshela. "We want to make way for the IEC," Ramotshela added. He said that students had, however, been given a chance to write the examinations in August, but students had said that this would hinder their preparations for the final-year examinations, set to begin in October. The Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) shut down all nine of its campuses last week following violent protests. Students were ordered to vacate their on residences. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.