Buks Viljoen, Correspondent Coffin. (Photo: Getty Images/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Three coffins carrying two deceased men and a woman were dumped at the Lebombo border post near Komatipoort, Mpumalanga, by a funeral parlour due to incomplete paperwork. The dead bodies had been transported from a funeral parlour in Johannesburg and were en route to the Mozambican provinces of Maputo and Gaza. Family members of the deceased were escorting the coffins. When the group arrived at the Lebombo border post, it was found that the paperwork to repatriate the bodies from South Africa was not complete and in order. The South African border authorities refused to release the bodies before the correct documentation was made available. While negotiations with the South African and Mozambican authorities continued for several hours, the funeral parlour dumped the three coffins next to the road on Sunday, a source in the Mozambican consulate in Mbombela (Nelspruit) who requested not to be named told News24. Members of a specialised task team of the national Department of Health responsible for handling all health-related incidents at border posts were called in the resolve the matter. 'No crime committed' The families of the deceased were given accommodation for Sunday and Monday nights in the border town of Ressano Garcia, a small town about 5km from the border post. The Mozambican authorities managed to convince the state mortuary in Tonga to keep the bodies in storage until all the paperwork was finalised. This was done by the Mozambican embassy in Pretoria as well as the Department of Health. On Tuesday all regulations and paperwork to have the bodies removed from South Africa were met and finalised and the bodies were eventually successfully repatriated to Mozambique. Mpumalanga police spokesperson Brigadier Leonard Hlathi confirmed to News24 that they were aware of the incident. "Because no crime was committed, and the situation was handled by the Department of Health, we did not open an investigation into the matter." A spokesperson for the department of health was not immediately available for comment. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Prophet Mboro reiterates that he never went to heaven Self-proclaimed prophet Paseka "Mboro" Motsoeneng has reiterated that  he never went to heaven and snapped selfies with Jesus, instead this story was planted by the PR team of another self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri. WATCH: More than 170 left homeless after fire rages through Alexandra Over 100 shacks were destroyed by a fire in Alexandra north of Johannesburg on Tuesday afternoon. PODCAST | Justice Denied: 'Freedom or death' - the choices for a man wrongfully convicted of murder Imagine spending 13 long years behind bars, for a murder you did not commit.

Boswell Mhlongo doesn't need to imagine... this living nightmare was his life. WATCH: Grief, anger as Durban community mourns teenagers killed by taxi Grief-stricken Newlands East residents became enraged on Wednesday after a minibus taxi ran into four secondary school pupils in Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, killing three. WATCH: Man says he was assaulted for 'staring' at perpetrator's wife While waiting for an order at a Benoni pizza outlet, a 28-year-old, Ekurhuleni, man was allegedly beaten up by a group of white men and called a k*** allegedly for staring at one of the men's wife. 'Please continue to support them' - Babe Wodumo's father to parents of abuse victims On Tuesday Bongekile Simelane's parents spoke on her behalf at a press conference as she was too ill to be there.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.