Kaveel Singh Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Authorities on Monday recovered the body of a man following severe flash flooding in Durban on Sunday. The police's search and rescue unit and other services resumed their search on Monday morning after three people went missing north of Durban in the Blackburn Village and Everest Heights area in Verulam. The subsiding of water levels and the assistance of a drone located a vehicle 500m downstream, with only two tyres protruding above the water. Following a dive operation, the body of the man, 28, was recovered from inside the submerged vehicle. Divers had to force their way through a window to gain access to the body as the doors were embedded in the sand below. ALSO READ: Woman's body found floating in KZN river The searches were called off on Sunday due to the heavy current and poor lighting. It is also thought that two men were swept away after they were washed off a bridge in Mhlasini in Everest Heights, Verulam, on Sunday. Private security company Reaction Unit SA reported that they were contacted by a local councillor around 20:47 after witnessing the men being washed off the bridge during a heavy down pour. WATCH: Two men who saved man from drowning on beach on New Year's Day say they aren't heroes Two young men put their own lives at risk to save a stranger from drowning on a Western Cape beach on New Year's Day. 
When Dewald van der Westhuizen (22)  and Hannes Swart (22) noticed a man in trouble, they swam to his aid, without thinking twice. WATCH: Durban beach buried in garbage after heavy rains Piles of plastic bottles and other debris accumulated on a Durban beach on Monday morning following heavy rain in KwaZulu-Natal. Watch. WATCH: Three Durban schoolchildren die after being hit by a taxi Three schoolchildren have been killed and another is in a serious condition after they were struck by a minibus taxi on Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, KwaZulu-Natal. WATCH- Durban metro police officer among 3 dead in CBD shooting A metro police officer is among three people who were killed in a shooting near the KwaZulu-Natal High Court in Durban on Monday morning. WATCH: Durban baby rescued from storm drain a 'miracle' - doctor The newborn baby that was rescued from a stormwater pipe in Durban on Monday morning is in good health, her attending physician has said. WATCH: Rescuers save newborn baby girl in three-hour operation A newborn baby girl has been saved after emergency services conducted a three hour mammoth rescue from a storm drain pipe in Durban. WATCH: South African paramedic dies in helicopter crash in the UAE A South African paramedic is among four people who died when a helicopter crashed in Ras al-Khaimah in the north eastern region of the United Arab Emirates. WATCH: Limpopo accident leaves 26 dead, among them 2 children Two children are among the 26 people who died in a horror multi-vehicle collision on the N1 in Mookgopong outside Modimolle, Limpopo, on Friday.

Four people survived the crash and were taken to various hospitals for medical treatment.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.