It’s been nearly two years since her father was beaten to death and there are still more questions than answers. Miekie Jacobs (now 24) still recalls the heart-stopping pounding on her door at 04:00 on April 6, 2017. "She should come," a neighbour said. "Her dad’s in hospital. He’s badly hurt..." A bleary Miekie, who lived in Oranjeville in the Free State at the time, checked her phone, for the first time seeing the messages from her brother, Ruberto (now 25). "There’s been an accident at the bar," he wrote. "Dad’s been taken to hospital – come as fast as you can." Earlier that evening her dad, Robert (47), had been having drinks with Ruberto and a few friends at a bar in Vanderbijlpark, Gauteng. Now, almost two years later, the exact circumstances of her dad’s death are still unknown. And Miekie is fighting tooth and nail to get answers. READ: 'I lost my hero' - Father of boxing champion killed in heated argument in Gauteng "We still don’t know exactly what happened,” an emotional Miekie told YOU. "It’s been almost two years since the incident and we’ve only learnt a few facts. One of the friends who’d been sitting with my brother and father allegedly got into an argument with another group of men at the bar. "There’s a strong resemblance between my dad and this friend, especially from behind. One of the men attacked my dad. My dad said, ‘I don’t know why you’re fighting, but it wasn’t me.’ But then the other man started beating him," she says. "My brother tried to help but one of the men cornered him. My dad was assaulted, beaten...He collapsed in the bar. That’s when they called an ambulance."  Miekie alleges her father’s friend, whose name is being withheld, abandoned the scene, leaving his car there. He’s never contacted the family to talk about what happened that night. Robert was taken to the Sebokeng Hospital in Vanderbijlpark. Both his arms were broken, he had a brain bleed and was badly bruised all over. Doctors believe he was hit on the head with a heavy object and would probably never have recovered. "Ruberto told me he’d helped my dad up after the guys were done beating him. Then [Dad] passed out – and never regained consciousness." Two days after the attack, Robert was transferred to the Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital where he was to undergo a brain operation. But his condition deteriorated fast and he died the same day, on April 9. 'I want justice for my dad' "It destroyed us. We were broken. None of us can fathom how anyone could do such a senseless thing – beating an innocent man to a pulp; taking his life right there, on the spot. "The cruelty of the deed haunts us daily," she says. Miekie has posted a plea on Facebook asking for witnesses to come forward. Her post is being shared widely. She writes: "If you were there that evening, or you have any information on the person who beat my dad to death, inbox me. There are many who were present that night, but don’t want to talk..." She goes on, "That’s all I want – I want justice for my dad. He deserves it. And I’ll keep fighting for more answers and until someone is held accountable." Police spokesperson Sergeant Gertrude Makhale told YOU no arrests have been made. "The case is still under investigation but more information about that and the current state of the investigation can’t be shared right now." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 