Canny Maphanga Babes Wodumo, Mampintsha (Photo: Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories In the early hours of Monday morning, gqom artist Bongekile "Babes Wodumo" Simelane went live on social media app Instagram with graphic visuals of her partner, Mandla "Mampintsha" Maphumulo launching a physical attack on her. Simelane is seen asking her attacker "Ung'shayelani? Ung'shayelani?" and saying "Ng'zok'bamba uzobona, ung'jwayel'amasimba", which loosely translates to "Why are you hitting me? Why are you hitting me?" and "I will catch you out, you are disrespecting me". Speaking to News24 on Monday evening, People Opposing Women Abuse activist Rosie Motene said although she couldn't speak on the artist's behalf, the video looked like a cry for help. Earlier, Simelane's sister, Nondumiso, told Channel24 that the violence was a "regular occurrence". READ MORE: Official statement released by Babes Wodumo's Twitter account While the video sparked outrage among many South Africans, the perennial question around cases of systemic abuse - "Why didn't she leave?" - was asked by many. "The question should not be 'Why didn't she leave?', it should be 'Why didn't he stop?'" gender violence specialist Lisa Vetten told News24, explaining that this type of questioning shifts the burden of gender-based violence from the perpetrator to the survivor. Statistics South Africa reports that the rate of murder of females increased drastically by 117% between 2015 and 2016/17. ALSO READ: Police open inquiry docket following Babes Wodumo assault Simelane and Maphumulo share a personal and working relationship, and this, according to Vetten, may make it harder for her to leave the relationship. Maphumulo not only manages Simelane, he can also be seen and heard in many of her videos and songs. "That is very close monitoring, surveillance and isolation of an individual. It speaks to someone who is very jealous and possessive," Vetten said. Experts argue that the question "Why didn't she leave?" is often asked by individuals with a very shallow understanding of the complexities of an abusive relationship. "We have got to respect women's autonomy and agency, this includes the process of decision-making, which is really not that easy. "When you take that away from her, you indirectly confirm that women cannot think for themselves," she said. In Simelane's case, Vetten argues that the social media video is a clear example of her process of decision-making. "If you go back to the radio interview that exposed the abuse, you can clearly see she was not ready to confront it, but the social media video is showing us the process. "She has come to a point where she is showing people what happened. People do not wake up and decide that they do not love their partner anymore - it is a process." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Domestic worker hit by car, driver speeds off A video of a woman being hit by a car while crossing the road in Benoni, reportedly on Monday morning, has been going viral on social media.
In the video, the woman is seen crossing the road outside the John Barrable Hall in Northmead, Benoni. Government explains new domestic violence package detail The Minister for Women, Kelly O'Dwyer and the Minster for Families and Social Services, Paul Fletcher speak to the media in Canberra with the Prime Minster Scott Morrison announcing a $328 million package to help prevent domestic violence against ... PM announces $328m for domestic violence package The Prime Minister Scott Morrison, flanked by the Minister for Women, Kelly O'Dwyer and the Minister for Families and Social Services Paul Fletcher, speaks to the media in Canberra announcing a $328 million action plan, "Our Investment in Women's ... Melania Trump begins 3-state 'Be Best' tour Melania Trump is in Oklahoma Monday to open a three-state tour highlighting all three components of her "Be Best" childhood initiative. It's her first solo domestic overnight trip as first lady. When the president doubles your KPAs on national television - this is what you do This was the head of South African Tourism Sisa Ntshona's reality after President Cyril Ramaphosa's SONA announcement to increase its tourist numbers to 21-million a year by 2030. We caught up with him at Meetings Africa Amber Heard's attorney slams Johnny Depp lawsuit as 'frivolous' Amber Heard’s attorney has reportedly accused her ex-husband Johnny Depp of attempting to "silence" her by suing her for making domestic abuse allegations against him. Labor announces asistance packages for victims of family violence to be paid for by bank levy Labor announces that the $650 million banking fairness fund, will levy the big banks to provide services to the community for such things as assistance to women looking to leave violent relationships. Vandals damage memorial stone at Strasbourg's Old Synagogue A memorial stone marking the site of Strasbourg's Old Synagogue, which was destroyed by the Nazis in World War II, is damaged once more after it was knocked down from its plinth vandals overnight. France is currently grappling with a surge in anti... This Palestinian man turns tear gas canisters into art Aida Refugee Camp is the most tear-gassed place in the world. One man decided to take the weapons of violence and turn them into pieces of art that represent peace. This Palestinian man turns tear gas canisters into art Aida Refugee Camp is the most tear-gassed place in the world. One man decided to take the weapons of violence and turn them into pieces of art that represent peace. Serbia: Protesting Against the President Every week, tens of thousands take to the streets of Serbia to protest against political violence and corruption. They condemn President Aleksandar Vucic's authoritarian regime. He accuses his critics of attempting a power grab. Airlines cancel flights over Kashmir violence Thousands of passengers have been left stranded, as airlines scramble to re-route flights that fly over Pakistan after the country shut its airspace following several days of violence with India over Kashmir. Donald Trump and Kim Jong Un meet for second day of Vietnam summit US president Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un have opened the second day of their high-stakes nuclear summit.

Mr Trump and Mr Kim jumped into the details of nuclear negotiations on Thursday against a backdrop of swirling questions... Hard Brexit could wipe at least 0.5 percent off German GDP - BDI If Britain quits the European Union without a deal, that could shave at least 0.5 percent off Germany’s gross domestic product (GDP), the head of Germany’s BDI industry association said on Tuesday. Costa Rica seeks to tackle violence with stricter gun control Costa Ricans defend the use of firearms as the government hopes to put in place a legal reform, which aims to tackle gun control in a country that suffered an alarming murder increase between 2012 and 2017. RAW: Dylan Walker and partner leave Manly Court Dylan Walker and his partner Alexandra Ivkovic leave Manly Local Court where 
Walker faced a hearing after pleading not guilty to the domestic violence assault of his partner. RAW: Dylan Walker and partner arrive at Manly Court Raw footage: Dylan Walker and his partner Alexandra Ivkovic arrive at Manly Local Court where Walker faces domestic violence offences. Venezuela hit with new U.S. sanctions after aid clashes The United States targeted Venezuela's government with new sanctions on Monday and called on allies to freeze the assets of its state-owned oil company PDVSA after deadly violence blocked aid from reaching the crisis-hit country during the weekend. At least 39 killed in Nigeria election violence At least 39 people have been killed in the violence during Nigeria's presidential and legislative elections. The elections were delayed for a week due to the late delivery of voting materials.
#Nigeria #elections #violence Spicejet to fly on 12 new routes Will start 20-25 additional flights on domestic routes soon, not expecting drop in load factor this year, says Ajay Singh, CEO, Spicejet. Director Alfonso Cuaron 'proud of the impact' of film 'Roma' Mexican director Alfonso Cuaron says his film "Roma" and its many nominations have "opened up a whole conversation that was so necessary" about the rights of domestic workers in both the US and Mexico, as he arrives on the red carpet ahead of the ... Venezuela border crossings tense but calm after violent clashes Calm has returned to Venezuela's borders with Brazil and Colombia after weekend violence that left two people dead Nigeria votes after week-long delay Nigerians vote for a new president after a week-long postponement that has raised political tempers, sparked conspiracy claims and stoked fears of violence. Nigerians start arriving at polling stations on election day Nigerians in Yola arrive at polling stations early on election day. They are turning out to vote for a new president after a week-long delay that has raised political tempers, sparked conspiracy claims and stoked fears of violence. The two frontru... Nigeria: first ballot submitted in this Lagos polling station The first voter votes in the Nigerian general election at this Lagos polling station. Nigerians vote for a new president after a week-long delay that has raised political tempers, sparked conspiracy claims and stoked fears of violence. DOCUMENTARY | News24 takes you inside the cult that captured an Eastern Cape community News24 sent a team of journalists to Ngcobo in the wake of deadly shootings between police and members of a confirmed cult. The team spoke to the cult leaders, families of victims, law enforcement and cult experts to piece together the story. BEML surges on lockheed tie-up BEML signs certificate of partnership with lockheed Martin Aeronautics, the partnership to explore domestic and global opportunities. United Nations says Mauritania urgently needs funds to deal with ongoing refugee crisis The United Nations says Mauritania in northwest Africa urgently needs funds to deal with a growing refugee crisis.

Thousands of people are arriving from neighbouring Mali to escape an extreme interpretation of Islam and inter-ethnic violence. Hundreds protest for the legalization of abortion in Argentina Protesters gathered in front of Argentina's National Congress calling for the government to legalize abortion, which they say would help stop violence against women. The art of filmmaking With ten nominations each, the comedy "Le Grand bain" and the drama on domestic violence "Jusqu'à la garde" are expected Friday evening at the César, two days before the Oscars. Videographic on the art of filmmaking. Paris: Clashes marked third month of 'Gilets Jaunes' protests An Elabe opinion poll this week showed dwindling support for them as more than half of those surveyed said they want the violence to stop. 1,200 children in the US killed by guns since Parkland In the year after Parkland, one of the deadliest school shootings in US history, at least 1,200 children have been killed as a result of gun violence. #Neveragain #Parkland #Guncontrol WATCH: Buses burned, windows shattered in CPUT violence Vandals destroyed two buses and damaged buildings at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology's Bellville campus in the early hours of Wednesday morning. Arkansas white supremacists accused of brutality Federal prosecutors are accusing a white supremacist gang in Arkansas of silencing witnesses to its meth-trafficking with brutal tactics, including permanently disfiguring one person's face. Malnourished children found locked in dog kennel Deputies discovered two malnourished children crammed into a locked dog cage and two more smeared with excrement in a North Texas barn. Politician's accuser discusses sexual violence A college professor appeared in public on Tuesday but did not talk directly about her accusation that Virginia's lieutenant governor sexually assaulted her in 2004. Vanessa Tyson took part in a Stanford University symposium on sexual violence. Two malnourished kids found in dog cage in Texas A Texas sheriff says deputies responding to a domestic disturbance discovered two young, malnourished children locked together in a dog cage while two others also were found malnourished. Mexican drug lord 'El Chapo' guilty on all counts: US attorney "The jury found that Guzman lead the Sinaloa cartel, one of the largest and most dangerous drug cartels in the world, and that he's responsible for violence including murders and the smuggling of massive amounts of narcotics into the United States... Elections Keeping Markets On Tightrope? On this episode of ‘Market Guru’, Pankaj Pandey, ICICI Direct, says global trade war concerns are having a lingering effect on metal stocks, and election-led anxiety is there on domestic front and will persist for some period of time. He says IT, ... BAFTAs 2019: Netflix film Roma scoops top prize as The Favourite wins seven awards The black-and-white movie about a domestic worker in 1970s Mexico won Best Film as well as Best Director for Alfonso Cuaron. Protester loses hand in Yellow Vest protest Violence broke on the 13th yellow vest protest in Paris. PM Modi Addresses Lok Sabha Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched a scathing attack on the proposed grand alliance of opposition parties to take on the BJP. Third Milwaukee officer killed since June A 17-year police veteran was shot and killed as he served a warrant on the Milwaukee's south side Wednesday, becoming the city's third officer killed in the line of duty in eight months. Analyst discusses Virginia's political crisis The political crisis in Virginia has exploded: The state's attorney general has confessed to putting on blackface in the 1980s and a woman has gone public with detailed allegations of sexual assault against the lieutenant governor. Lupin posts surprise loss, remains operationally strong in Q3 Numbers seem to better than expectations. Commentary by management on US and domestic markets will be crucial: Avinash Gorakssakar, Joindre Capital Services. Jolie demands Myanmar 'commitment' to end anti-Rohingya violence Hollywood superstar Angelina Jolie says that Myanmar must "show genuine commitment" to end violence that has driven hundreds of thousands of Rohingya Muslims into neighbouring Bangladesh as she visits a Rohingya refugee camp in Bangladesh. Reporter - Police Violence in the Slums of Nairobi Nineteen-year-old Brian was shot dead in broad daylight in the Kayole slum in Kenya. The Kenyan police are killing suspected criminals in an underground war against crimes - as many as 3,000 in the last year. Nearly one in five road users threatened with physical violence The survey was commissioned by Auto Trader, which has launched the #SwearToChange campaign to tackle road rage. The poll of 3,000 UK road users, including motorists, cyclists, pedestrians, runners or wheelchair users, found that some 11% of road u... Polls open in El Salvador presidential election Polls open in El Salvador's presidential elections under heavy security as voters look for change in a country beset by gang violence and widespread poverty.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.