Poloko Tau Clashes on the Venezuelan Colombian Border Venezuelan migrants and security forces clashed on the Venezuelan-Colombian border. Amid the clashes, more Venezuelan military defected as the country's political crisis continues to deepen. Ace Magashule Picture: Marietjie Gericke Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories An ANC delegation left for the politically and economically-troubled Venezuela in South America at the weekend on what the party said was a "fact-finding mission". Led by the party's secretary general, Ace Magashule, the delegation left on Saturday and included officials from the ANC's alliance partners. The delegation was expected to arrive to volatility in the oil-rich country, which has been making news headlines amid civil unrest fueled by a leadership feud between Nicholas Maduro and opposition leader, Juan Guaido. The unrest, which came with an unprecedented economic melt-down, has left communities displaced, poverty on the rise and shelves empty in shops according to reports. With many struggling to get food, there have been reports of foreign-aid carrying trucks being blocked from entering Venezuela recently. The ANC said last week that it found it "particularly alarming" that the crisis appeared to be fueled by external parties, most notably the United States. The party expressed its opposition to external interference in Venezuela. Brazil humanitarian aid arrives to Venezuelan border A pick-up truck carrying Brazilian humanitarian aid for Venezuela heads for the Venezuelan border. "The ANC's foreign policy is grounded on human rights, rule of law and democracy. We will, however, support any democratic process that allows the people to express their will free from any external influence," the party said in a statement at the time. While it was not exactly clear what Magashule and others were going to do in the embattled Venezuela, the ANC still held the same position at the weekend: "The ANC reiterates its view that interference by any external party in the affairs of a nation with the sole purpose of instigating regime change through unconstitutional means is not only unacceptable, but creates a dangerous world order. The ANC believes that the people of Venezuela must be given space to determine their own future and choose their own government through democratic processes". The party said it was "encouraged by the outcome of the Tuesday debate on the matter by the UN Security Council", adding that together with its alliance partners they were "ready to work with the people of Venezuela to find a permanent solution that will be acceptable to all the people of Venezuela". Venezuela's Guaido gives presser in Buenos Aires Venezuela's opposition leader Juan Guaido makes an appereance in Argentina as he continues a tour of regional allies to rally international support. Venezuelan migrants give Argentine baseball a boost In a country where football is king, baseball is receiving a welcome boost from talented Venezuelans who have settled in Argentina, escaping from the hyperinflation and lack of food and medication in their crisis-ridden country. Venezuela's Guaido arrives in Paraguay Venezuela opposition leader Juan Guaido arrives in Asuncion to meet the Paraguayan President Mario Abdo, as he looks to reinforce international backing for his challenge to the leadership of socialist Nicolas Maduro. Venezuelans turn to trash for food as crisis continues As the crisis in Venezuela wages on, many in the country have turned to scavenging for food in trash cans and garbage trucks. Russia's Lavrov meets Venezuelan Vice President in Moscow Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and Venezuelan Vice President Delcy Rodriguez meet in Moscow for talks on Venezuela's political crisis. Chaos turns to uncertainty at Venezuela border Venezuela's blockaded border forces local people to use illegal trails to cross the Venezuela-Colombia border to reach the schools and shops they depend on. People use illegal trails to cross the Colombia-Venezuela border People use illegal trails to cross between Colombia and Venezuela, as the border bridges between the two countries remain closed. This alternative is mainly used by Venezuelans, who cross into the neighboring country to buy food and medicines and ... Venezuela's Guaido meets EU ambassadors in Brasilia Venezuela's opposition leader Juan Guaido meets with ambassadors at the European Union headquarters in Brasilia, during his visit to Brazil for talks aimed at securing more support from President Jair Bolsonaro. Traders at Colombia Venezuela border worried about shut down Many shops are closed near the Colombian border with Venezuela as traders are concerned about their business as the border has been shut since clashes broke out over the weekend. Government supporters attend pro-Maduro rally in Caracas Government supporters gather in Caracas, Venezuela, for a pro-Nicolas Maduro rally, after four people were killed and hundreds injured as Guaido supporters clashed with Venezuelan security forces on the borders with Colombia and Brazil over the we... Simon Bolivar Colombia-Venezuela border bridge remains closed The Simon Bolivar International Bridge between Colombia and Venezuela remains closed, with containers blocking the way and security forces guarding both sides. United States denies Russian  accusations of planning military intervention in Venezuela The United States has denied Russian  accusations of planning military intervention in Venezuela, despite President Trump saying that "all options were still on the table." Journalist detained by Venezuela's Maduro arrives in Miami Jorge Ramos, a journalist from US-based television network Univision, says his crew was detained for more than two hours in Venezuela after offending President Nicolas Maduro during an interview by asking questions on poverty and his legitimacy to... UN Security Council holds emergency meeting on Venezuela crisis UN Security Council holds emergency meeting on Venezuela crisis Pro-Maduro rally in Delta Amacuro state in Venezuela Government supporters gather in the Delta Amacuro state in Venezuela for a pro-Nicolas Maduro rally. Over the weekend Guaido supporters clashed with Venezuelan security forces on the borders with Colombia and Brazil, resulting in four people kille... Venezuelan crisis creates roaring business for border traders Colombian currency now being used Venezuela hit with new U.S. sanctions after aid clashes The United States targeted Venezuela's government with new sanctions on Monday and called on allies to freeze the assets of its state-owned oil company PDVSA after deadly violence blocked aid from reaching the crisis-hit country during the weekend. Venezuelans gather for mass pro-Maduro rally A sea of supporters of President Nicolas Maduro gather for a mass rally in the Venezuelan city of Trujillo. Venezuela military meets protesters on Simon Bolivar Bridge Venezuelan military, including General Sulbaran Quintero, talks with protesters on the Simon Bolivar International Bridge between Venezuela and Colombia, after deadly clashes at the border. Humanitarian aid truck goes up in flames on Colombian-Venezuelan border One truck in a convoy attempting to deliver humanitarian aid into Venezuela from Colombia went up in flames on Saturday as the country faces political turmoil and economic collapse. EU: military intervention in Venezuela must be 'avoided' The spokeswoman for EU diplomacy chief Federica Mogherini urges countries to avoid any military intervention in Venezuela.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.