Jenna Etheridge Firefighter Graeme Daniels with the rescued puppy (Cape of Good Hope SPCA) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Firefighters may have nerves of steel to run into big blazes, but they also have soft hearts. Firefighting team members from Atlantis, Cape Town showed theirs this week when they were called to assist a puppy that had become trapped in a drain pipe. And thanks to team leader Gregehano Willemse's quick thinking, it was a happy ending for the little pup, which was reunited with its mother and litter mates. READ: SPCA determined that Cape Town dog killers get punished Willemse said that after receiving the call, the first crew arrived at a council house around 04:00 on Wednesday. "They opened up the concrete and managed to locate the puppy." Also on scene to assist was Cape of Good Hope SPCA inspector Elani Steenkamp. Crying They could hear the puppy crying and she immediately tried to retrieve it. But the puppy was lodged tightly in a position that did not allow a retrieval, even with rescue tongs. "Standing on the spot, I realised that the drain pipes must go to a manhole [in a neighbouring property]," he said. He took his team to the property and they made several attempts to manoeuvre the animal from the different vantage point. Willemse said they then secured a sponge to the end of a hosepipe and used it to gently push the puppy through the pipe, which was a success. The SPCA praised the teamwork of all involved, including the puppy's owner. The puppy was taken to the animal clinic for a check-up, along with its mother and three siblings. All were doing well. Willemse said: "It's a good feeling that goes through one's mind that you can save animals, because God gave man animals [to look after]."  Photos: (Cape of Good Hope SPCA) KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH Hundreds of flamingo chicks admitted to SANCCOB for life-saving rehabilitation Over 2 000 abandoned and distressed flamingo chicks were jetted all over South Africa this week as part of a series of mercy flights from Kimberley after their habitat came under threat due to water problems. VIDEO: Police, SPCA say these monkeys probably didn't escape from hijacked vehicle Two separate videos of a monkey jumping between homes and one casually strolling about have emerged on social media. Animal Clinic - Part 1 We follow the extraordinary work of Ireland's largest animal charity, the Dublin SPCA. Animal Clinic - Part 3 This episode is all about horses. The charity face an equine crisis as Ireland's economy crumbles.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.