Riaan Grobler and Sesona Ngqakamba WATCH: More than 170 left homeless after fire rages through Alexandra Over 100 shacks were destroyed by a fire in Alexandra north of Johannesburg on Tuesday afternoon. People trying to salvage their belongings following a fire in Alexandra on Tuesday.  (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The number of shacks destroyed by a fire in Alexandra north of Johannesburg on Tuesday afternoon has risen to more than 100. By Tuesday afternoon at around 15:30, News24 reported that at least 80 shacks had by then been destroyed. Johannesburg Emergency Management Services spokesperson Nana Radebe told News24 on Wednesday that cleaning-up operations were set to continue on Wednesday. "By yesterday [Tuesday] it was clear that over 100 shacks had been affected. Fire Safety will be doing preliminary investigations [on Wednesday] morning. According to Radebe, the fire was contained at around 19:00. At least 170 people had so far been displaced and were being housed at a nearby crèche and church, Radebe told News24.  "But that number is expected to rise," she said. "Many people, however, are concerned about their belongings and have stayed behind [at their shacks] to salvage building materials and guard their homes," Radebe said. City Power spokesperson Isaac Mangena on Tuesday told News24 that a pylon and overhead line, carrying about 88 kilovolts of electricity, fell on the shacks.  READ MORE: 80 shacks catch fire in Alexandra, 88-kilovolt overhead line falls on structures Mangena said the line could cause injuries and even death. Several areas are expected to be without electricity. "As of now, we don't know the cause of this. We are also not sure if there are casualties. We have dispatched a team to the area to investigate," said Mangena. Mangena could not be reached for further comment on Wednesday morning. No casualties have been reported. @eNCA @SABCNewsOnline @tumisole @CityPowerJhb @HermanMashaba @danielmarven ALEX IS ON FIRE AGAIN @AsktheChiefJMPD pic.twitter.com/zUkbeUokAa  Alexandra shacks on fire https://t.co/j7Y3P2TBTs pic.twitter.com/RxfPuOrPOS   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Losing everything is heartbreaking - Vrygrond resident The City of Cape Town is conducting assessments on the fire that ravaged through Vrygrond near Muizenberg in Cape Town on Thursday night.

According to the City, the fire started at about 17:30 and up to 120 shacks were destroyed. WATCH: Outpouring of support in Pretoria after 300 people left homeless following shack fires On Saturday afternoon, 62 shacks burnt down in Plastic View informal settlement adjacent to the NG Gemeente in Moreletapark, Pretoria. WATCH: Firefighters battle blaze in Franschhoek mountains Firefigthers have been battling a large blaze in the Franschhoek mountains since Monday, when it broke out in the Mooiwater area. WATCH: Holy Cross primary in Cape Town on fire Firefighters were called out to Holy Cross RC Primary School in the Cape Town CBD after plumes of smoke were seen emanating from the premises. WATCH: Betty's Bay fire victim shares heartbreaking experience of the blaze A Betty's Bay resident has spoken out about the trauma of losing her home in a fire that raged through the town at the weekend. 'The fire was higher than the roof here'- Hermanus farmer "Camphill, you've got 30 minutes until that fire is on you." These were the chilling words that came through as a Hermanus farm community, housing 54 intellectually disabled patients, was forced to evacuate. WATCH: Pet dog dies in Sea Point apartment block blaze A Sea Point apartment was destroyed in a high-rise fire that was put out before it spread to the rest of the building on Wednesday. WATCH: Overstrand fire rages on Air support has been brought in to battle a large fire in the Overstrand area in the Western Cape. The fire has devastated areas close to Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els. WATCH: Video shows razed homes after fire sweeps through Hartenbos, Mossel Bay Two houses have been destroyed in a blaze in Mossel Bay's Hartenbos Heuwels. WATCH: Firefighters leave Overstrand with song and dance The firefighters who tirelessly battled to bring a raging fire in the Overstrand area under control have held a parade to thank the community for their support. WATCH: At least 31 houses destroyed in Overstrand wildfires; video shows devastation in Betty's Bay At least 31 houses have been completely destroyed and 28 partially damaged by wildfires on the coastal Overstrand region in the Western Cape. WATCH: Farming community in George is a ghost town following a fire that claimed 8 lives The farming community of Farleigh in the Southern Cape is a ghost town following a fire that claimed eight lives on Tuesday. WATCH: Firefighter fight blaze to save hectares of Paarl fynbos destroyed in fire At least 500ha of 15-year-old fynbos was lost in the fire that swept through part of Paarl mountain, the Drakenstein municipality said as they scaled down on operations on Friday. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits. WATCH- Three firefighters confirmed dead following Johannesburg building fire.mp4 WATCH- Three firefighters confirmed dead following Johannesburg building fire   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.