Jan Gerber WATCH: Our approach to land expropriation will be to enhance property rights - Cyril Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed the 25th annual Investing in Africa Mining Indaba at the Cape Town International Convention Centre on Tuesday. A tractor on a farm.  (City Press) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Ad Hoc Committee to Amend Section 25 of the Constitution has agreed to refer their work to the Sixth Parliament. The committee met on Wednesday to finalise its report, and ANC MP Vincent Smith suggested that they include the recommendations that the committee would not be able to complete its work by the end of the Fifth Parliament's term, and that the Sixth Parliament be tasked with amending the Constitution to allow for expropriation of land without compensation. READ: Land: Amending Section 25 a 'great moment in South African history' - Justice Albie Sachs The committee agreed with the recommendation that it could not complete its work before the National Assembly rises on March 20, ahead of the general elections in May. However, DA MP Annelie Lotriet and ACDP MP Steve Swart indicated that their parties reserved their positions regarding the recommendation that the committee's work be referred to the Sixth Parliament. LAND REFORM: The exact moment resolution to amend Constitution is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. The EFF has pushed that the amendment be completed before the end of this parliamentary term. But, on Wednesday, not a single EFF MP attended the meeting, just like at the committee's previous two meetings. The committee's report will be presented to the National Assembly for deliberation and adoption. This was the committee's final meeting. Ad Hoc Committee on the amendment of Section 25 of the Constitution agreed it can not complete its work before 5th Parliament rises, 6th Parliament must be tasked with it. @TeamNews24 In its report, the committee also acknowledged the contribution of the "experts" who had made presentations at its previous two meetings. Former Constitutional Court Justice Albie Sachs was one of these experts, and he said that he was a "little alarmed" when he saw the amendment had to be completed before the end of this term, when he addressed the committee on March 1. He did, however, support amending Section 25 and described it as a "great moment" in South Africa's history. MORE: Land: Whatever you decide, it must be reviewable, Albie Sachs tells MPs At the same meeting, former tourism minister Valli Moosa said that, when the Constitution was drafted, Section 25 wasn't included to protect white people's land ownership. He said it was included after much debate, as one of the most painful things about apartheid was how black people were removed from their land without compensation. He also called on the committee to ensure that South Africans understood what it was busy with. At last week's meeting advocate Tembeka Ngcukaitobi said that there was a need to think creatively about land reform, and to think of it "beyond the mantra of expropriation without compensation". He said, where redistribution had taken place, it had benefitted elites, when it should benefit people who need land. Advocate Wim Trengove also addressed the committee and said it was safe to assume that white ownership of land was the result of privilege, and therefore the burden to prove the historical landownership rested on white people where it was unclear who originally owned the land. The committee was established last year after Parliament adopted the report of the Constitutional Review Committee, which recommended that Section 25 should be amended to allow expropriation of land without compensation. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Zuma on land: Less debate, more nationalisation Former President Jacob Zuma said there is too much debate about land expropriation without compensation to his liking, and suggested that land should be nationalised. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH: Singing in chamber as resolution that Constitution be amended is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. Land expropriation: EFF says it's race issue; DA questions process Court action to prevent Parliament from amending the Constitution to allow for expropriation without compensation seems imminent as parties opposing an amendment to section 25 all sang from the same hymn sheet. WATCH: Julius Malema on changing the constitution regarding land expropriation On 13 November in parliament, during the first day of the Joint Constitutional Review Committee deliberating a draft report on the possible review of Section 25 of the Constitution to allow expropriation of land without compensation. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.