Canny Maphanga IEC. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories South Africans living abroad who wish to cast their vote in the upcoming May elections have one week to left to apply. "In terms of the election timetable published last week, registered voters have until 23:59 on March 13, 2019, to apply and notify the chief electoral officer of their intention to vote at one of South Africa's 121 foreign missions," the Electoral Commission of South Africa (IEC) said in a statement on Wednesday. This reminder comes after President Cyril Ramaphosa proclaimed May 8 as the official national election date. ALSO READ: May 8 officially proclaimed election day - IEC WATCH: IEC hails new law to ensure transparency in political party funding President Cyril Ramaphosa signed the Political Party Funding bill into law on Tuesday. These applications are open to South Africans living abroad and those who are locally registered but will be travelling outside the country during the May elections. The IEC reports that it had received 12 425 applications by Tuesday. "Of these, 6 247 have applied to vote in missions in Europe, 2 926 in Asia, 1 502 in Africa, 868 in North America, 817 in Oceania and 65 in South America," the electoral body explained. In the country's previous national elections held in 2014, the IEC reports that it received 27 899 applications to vote outside the country "of which 26 716 were approved and a total of 18 446 actually voted in the election". South Africans abroad will cast their vote earlier than the rest of the nation on April 27, 2019. "This is to allow for the secure transport of completed ballot papers back to the national office of the electoral commission where they will be counted in front of party agents and added to the national ballot count once polling closes on May 8, 2019," the IEC explained. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Political party 'slaughters' watermelon on Cape beach in video stunt A small political party has staged a mock sacrifice of a watermelon on a Cape Town beach in response to the slaughter of a sheep in December. WATCH: 10 million eligible voters are unregistered - IEC Almost 10 million South Africans who are eligible to vote are not registered, the Independent Electoral Commission said on Wednesday. WATCH: Political parties say they are ready for the coming elections Political parties say that they are ready for the coming elections. Speaking to News24 at the IEC elections launch at the Gallagher Convention Centre, the leaders also urged those eligible to vote to go register on January 26 and 27.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.