Poloko Tau Pule Mabe, woordvoerder van die ANC. Foto: Sarel van der Walt (Foto: Sarel van der Walt) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The ANC says it may not have an in-house sexual harassment policy just yet but it has ensured that the public is protected from unwanted sexual advances at work through the Labour Relations Act. This was according to Nocawe Mafu, a member of the party's social transformation committee, at a media briefing at Luthuli House on Sunday. With the ruling party's two spokespersons, Pule Mabe and Zizi Kodwa, having "voluntarily" stepped down from their duties recently amid sexual harassment accusations, the committee was forced to deal with a question on sexual harassment in what was supposed to be a manifesto briefing on social transformation. A claim of rape had been levelled against Kodwa, who is also head of the ANC's presidency office, and Mabe's former personal assistant accused him of sexual harassment. 'That's hogwash!'- Pule Mabe on accusations of intimate relationship with former PA ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe, who is currently on leave from that role pending the outcome of the inquiry of sexual harassment claims, strongly denied claims that he and his former assistant had an intimate relationship of sorts in the past. READ: ANC wars - The bough is breaking, when will the cradle fall? "We acknowledge (as the ANC) that the sexual harassment policy is not there but remember the sexual harassment policy in the Labour Relations Act is the work of the ANC. The only thing you can fault us on is that the ANC on its own does not have that policy; we accept and we're working on it," Mafu said. "How we behave is subjective but of course, it will reflect on the organisation we belong [to]. That is why the ANC has taken it upon [itself] to make sure that around the issue of sexual harassment policy, we get busy; we're talking about it, interacting with other stakeholders so that when it comes out it comes out tight and reflective." Questions around sexual harassment came out after the committee chairperson Mondli Gungubele read out the party's manifesto statement on social transformation. On social transformation, the committee promised the party would, among others, "call for stricter bail conditions and harsher sentences in combating violence against women and children, particularly in cases of domestic violence and sexual offences" and "equip the police and the court system to support survivors of gender-based violence and sexual assault". Gungubele cited among others the following as the achievements of the ANC as the governing party: • In 1994, only 6 out of 10 South Africans had access to clean drinking water. Today that figure has increased to nearly 9 out of 10; • 4,7 million housing opportunities delivered since 1994 benefitting 14 million people; • 90% of public schools have become no-fee paying schools, and learners are benefiting from school feeding schemes and government-subsidised scholar transport and this has contributed to the increase in school attendance from 51% in 1994 to 99% today; • Today 9 out of 10 adult South Africans can read and write; • The number of learners who passed matric increased from 50% before 1994 to around 78% today; • The number of individuals on social grants increased from 3 million in 1994 to 17.5 million in 2017. The ANC further promised to: • Develop a plan to take care of the first 1 000 days of human life from pregnancy until two years of age; • Address social grants exclusion errors by improving targeting (orphans, children, aged on farms, remote rural areas, disabilities); • Increase UIF coverage as currently only 5% of unemployed people benefit from this fund; • Release land at the disposal of the state for site and service to afford households the opportunity to build and own their own homes. PODCAST: ANC and the polls – are the party's leaders even bothered with the upcoming elections? This week on POLOTIKI, yet another ANC leader found himself in the middle of sexual assault claims, EFF leader Julius Malema takes the land question to Newcastle and we peel off another layer of the relationship between the ruling party and Bosasa. WATCH: Mbalula willing to testify at #StateCaptureInquiry Fikile Mbalula on Thursday said he is ready to testify at the state capture inquiry. Inside the ANC's Bosasa election war room Bosasa sponsored these war rooms for the past three elections for the ANC, at an estimated cost of R2-million per election. WATCH: ANC hails 'selfless leader' Mama Kotane as she celebrates 107 years ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule on Tuesday hailed stalwart Mama Rebecca Kotane at her 107th birthday celebration in Soweto. LISTEN: Bosasa bosses Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma [WITH SUBTITLES] In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. LISTEN: Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Agrizzi claims he packed R50 000 a month for Minister Mokonyane Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi told the Zondo Commission that the company catered for ANC rallies and paid for the ruling party's birthday cake. Agrizzi was testifying about the relationship between Bosasa and Cabinet minister Nomvula Mokonyana WATCH: Damage to 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard a criminal act – DA The DA has called the damage inflicted on its newly unveiled 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, a 'criminal act'. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi continues to testify at state capture inquiry - Day 2 The second day of testimony by former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi at the commission of inquiry into state capture is set to be far more explosive and damning for the ruling ANC party and his former colleagues. WATCH: NUM challenges government to save jobs at Optimum mine The National Union of Mine Workers marched to the Union Buildings on Wednesday to demand that government intervention in Tegeta's business rescue process. WATCH: Armed local farmer walks into demonstration in Greyton Western Cape police are probing an incident involving a man who was caught on camera on Monday, wielding a firearm during a demonstration in Greyton. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. WATCH: Ramaphosa tees off ahead of ANC's manifesto launch President Cyril Ramaphosa enjoyed a day of golf on Friday morning ahead of  the ANC's birthday celebrations and manifesto launch on Saturday. Ramaphosa played alongside paired players at the Mount Edgecombe Country Club Estate in Durban. WATCH: Ramaphosa calls on private sector to assist with the fight against corruption Corruption has become a big issue that has to be addressed by the whole nation, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Thursday. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Anti-racism protest shuts down Bronkhorstspruit During a protest against racism in Bronkhorstspruit on Tuesday, where the entire central business district of the small town was shut down, the ANC Youth League in Tshwane have made a call expropriate land belonging to racist farmers. Zuma en Ramaphosa luidkeels ontvang in KwaZulu-Natal Oudpres. Jacob Zuma en pres. Cyril Ramaphosa is luidekeels ontvang deur ANC-ondersteuners by die Ohlange Stadion in KwaZulu-Natal voordat Ramaphosa 'n verklaring voorgelees het.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.