Riaan Grobler WATCH: Karima Brown is not a journalist - Malema Speaking after his birthday celebrations in Ekhuruleni, EFF leader Julius Malema on Tuesday responded to questions regarding the party releasing the phone number of journalist Karima Brown. Karima Brown on The Fix  Pictures:supplied Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The EFF and its top leadership has come under fire after veteran journalist Karima Brown was verbally abused and received threatening messages after her cellphone number was published on Twitter. This comes after Brown seemingly posted an editorial brief in an EFF media WhatsApp group after the party posted an invitation to an EFF "Breakfast With The Elderly" function scheduled for Wednesday. Brown responded: "Keep an eye out for this. Who are these elders. Are they all male and how are they chosen. Keep watching brief (sic)." She later deleted the message. READ: Sanef approaches Equality Court in bid to stop threats and intimidation from Malema, EFF WATCH: Malema condemns rape threats after EFF posts Karima Brown's number Speaking after his birthday celebrations in Ekhuruleni, EFF leader Julius Malema on Tuesday condemned rape being used as a threat. EFF leader Julius Malema later tweeted a screenshot of the message, which included Brown's cellphone number, saying: "Karima Brown is sending moles to our breakfast with the elders tomorrow, she incidentally sends the message to the @EFFSouthAfrica media WhatsApp group and deleted it immediately." This ignited a barrage of abusive responses from EFF members, accusing Brown of being a spy and calling her a whore and a bitch, among other insults and threats. Since then, Brown has been the target of abusive messages and even rape threats. "Step aside or we will crush your prolapsed vagina," one threat, forwarded by Brown, states. READ: SACP slams intimidation, threats against journalists Brown responded that she would not be intimidated or scared by the attacks on her by the party, its leaders or supporters. The South African National Editors' Forum (Sanef) on Wednesday condemned what it termed "the systemic, abusive and cruel social media attack levelled against Talk Show Host and veteran journalist Karima Brown over the last 24 hours by Economic Freedom Front leader Julius Malema and his supporters". 'Indian whore and bitch' "Malema published the cellphone number of Brown and, shortly thereafter, his supporters began a barrage of insults against her - calling her, among other derogatory names, 'an Indian whore and bitch' and levelling insults, threatening her life, and accusing her of allegedly sending moles to spy on them. "This after Brown [accidentally] posted a message on an EFF WhatsApp group. The message was meant for a journalist group instead." Sanef called on the EFF leadership to "stop with this vicious attack on the media and allow journalists to do their work without fear and intimidation". Sanef said the attacks on women in media in particular and the abuse levelled against them is contrary to the spirit of wanting to protect women in a country where violence against women has reached pandemic levels. "Only yesterday, the EFF stood tall and condemned the abuse levelled against artist Babes Wodumo. "We also remind Malema that when his personal details were published on Twitter - Sanef condemned it, just as we condemn his actions to put out Brown's telephone number." Sanef said it further noted that the unwarranted attacks on Brown were similar to the previous attacks by the EFF and its supporters on women journalists - a matter that Sanef has placed before the Equality Court. "If the EFF leadership has evidence and/or concerns about Brown or any other member of the media they must deal with this in the correct forum including the Broadcasting Complaints Commission for Radio and Television and online or the Press Ombudsman/Council for Print and Online. "From a Sanef position there is empirical evidence to show that when senior party leaders and politicians muzzle journalists, their supporters follow in their footsteps." EFF defends its position The EFF has, however, defended its position in a statement on Wednesday. "The EFF has long held a position that Karima Brown is not a journalist, but an openly admitted ANC operative. All journalists who hold legitimate positions, and whose integrity has always been consistent with journalistic ethics, should care about what role Karima Brown plays in the media," said EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi. "Upon accidentally dropping what looks like briefing notes in an EFF Media Statements WhatsApp Group, we have since exposed those notes to the public. "As a result, she has argued that those were editorial notes for eNCA journalists. We know for a fact that Karima Brown holds no editorial positions, not even an assignment editor's position at the eNCA. We urge the eNCA to explain in what capacity, she would be briefing journalists who are going on assignments to cover EFF meetings." The EFF said it mentioned her in name "because we do not want to tarnish all other journalists by making generalisations". "Our argument is with her, because we believe she holds no position, anywhere, to be deploying journalists to cover any news. "If Karima Brown is no official editor, and yet the eNCA allows her to hold such power, they must say so. This will make matters easy for us, as we will, from henceforth, deal with her and not the officially designated editors," said the EFF. eNCA political editor, Vuyo Mvoko, responded on the EFF WhatsApp group that Brown has a show called The Fix which airs on Sunday mornings on the channel. "It's a political show that looks at the body politic. She has a team that helps her put the show together. Throughout the week, the team keeps an eye on everything that happens on the political font. "A watching brief it was and nothing more. That it was mistakenly posted here doesn't change the facts and doesn't justify the unwarranted and cowardly attacks on her," he said. 'Attack on media freedom' Sanef said the attack on Brown is "a clear example of the attack on media freedom". "Our purpose as a non-profit association is to advance ethical and quality journalism - a critical component of media freedom and access to information as enshrined in our Constitution. "We call on Julius Malema and the entire EFF leadership to apologise to Karima Brown. "Sanef will continue to champion the cause of independent journalism, to support journalists under threat in our own country and abroad, and to support the deepening of our democracy." Sanef said it had lodged a complaint in the Equality Court late in 2018 against the EFF following a "barrage of abusive and dangerous threats" against journalists in South Africa. "Sanef approached the court in defence of media freedom and seeking protection of journalists against sustained intimidation and threats against journalists by Julius Malema and his supporters. "Sanef is concerned that attacks against journalists are escalating and calls on political parties and those elected to lead not to use journalists as pawns in their political infighting and/ or to cover up corruption. In the run-up to the elections, highly contested hotspots often pose a threat to the safety of journalists. "We appeal to the [Electoral Commission of SA] to monitor these transgressions against the media and educate political parties on the Electoral Act that allows for media to operate in a free and fair environment." Sanef said it had rolled out elections workshops in all nine provinces focusing on elections coverage, ethics and how to deal with disinformation campaigns against them.     KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: We are not convinced Karima Brown works for ENCA - Malema Speaking after his birthday celebrations in Ekhuruleni, EFF leader Julius Malema on Tuesday responded to questions regarding the party's public spat with journalist Karima Brown. Video of UFS student cleaning up after EFF protesters has social media users at one another's throat A University of the Free State (UFS) student has unwittingly opened a virtual can of worms after a video of him cleaning up after protesters went viral. WATCH: EFF MP slaps security official at Parliament The Economic Freedom Fighters were caught in yet another scuffle at Parliament on Thursday, when one of their MPs assaulted a security official. WATCH: What would the Ramaphosa-Malema-Maimane band be called? If President Cyril Ramaphosa formed a band with EFF leader Julius Malema and DA leader Mmusi Maimane, what should it be called? PODCAST: ANC and the polls – are the party's leaders even bothered with the upcoming elections? This week on POLOTIKI, yet another ANC leader found himself in the middle of sexual assault claims, EFF leader Julius Malema takes the land question to Newcastle and we peel off another layer of the relationship between the ruling party and Bosasa. Ramaphosa: I will sing Masekela's 'Thuma Mina' if EFF win in May South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa jokingly says that if the Economic Freedom Fighters win elections in May, he will sing Hugh Masekela's song 'Thuma Mina' in Parliament. Ramaphosa was delivering his last state-of-the-nation address ahead of... WATCH: 'Our land and jobs now!' - EFF launches election manifesto Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema on Saturday launched the party's election manifesto at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve. S.Africa's EFF party supporters arrive ahead of Manifesto launch Supporters of South Africa's far-left Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) arrive at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve, Pretoria, ahead of the party's manifesto launch. WATCH: 'EFF is the only alternative' - supporter at manifesto launch Hundreds have filled Giant Stadium in Shoshanguve, north of Pretoria ahead of the Economic Freedom Fighters manifesto launch. WATCH: Political party 'slaughters' watermelon on Cape beach in video stunt A small political party has staged a mock sacrifice of a watermelon on a Cape Town beach in response to the slaughter of a sheep in December. WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). WATCH: EFF supporters storm Vodacom stores Self-declared members and supporters of the EFF, many in EFF T-shirts, attacked at least two Vodacom stores over the weekend. WATCH: Malema lays charges against Pravin Gordhan EFF leader Julius Malema opened a case of money laundering and corruption against Public Enterprises minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan files criminal charges against Malema Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan filed criminal defamation, crimen injuria and incitement of violence charges against EFF leader Julius Malema on Monday. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan wraps up his testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day3 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan wrapped up his testimony at the judicial inquiry into state capture sitting in Johannesburg on Wednesday. Watch. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan wraps up his testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day3 / Part1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan wrapped up his testimony at the judicial inquiry into state capture sitting in Johannesburg on Wednesday. Watch. WATCH LIVE: Julius Malema addresses the crowd outside #StateCaptureInquiry EFF leader Julius Malema addressed the crowd outside the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture where Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan was testifying. WATCH: EFF demonstrates for second day at #StateCaptureInquiry Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday continued with his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, as the EFF demonstrated outside for a second day in a row. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day1 / Part3) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: Pravin will destroy Eskom and SAA in order to privatise them - EFF The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) staged a picket outside the State Capture Inquiry on Monday calling for the removal of Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Public Enterprises. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day1 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day 1/Part 1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: 'Pravin lied to our people' – EFF While Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg on Monday, the EFF made its presence known, protesting outside the venue. LAND REFORM: The exact moment resolution to amend Constitution is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. WATCH: Singing in chamber as resolution that Constitution be amended is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. Land expropriation: EFF says it's race issue; DA questions process Court action to prevent Parliament from amending the Constitution to allow for expropriation without compensation seems imminent as parties opposing an amendment to section 25 all sang from the same hymn sheet. WATCH: Julius Malema on changing the constitution regarding land expropriation On 13 November in parliament, during the first day of the Joint Constitutional Review Committee deliberating a draft report on the possible review of Section 25 of the Constitution to allow expropriation of land without compensation. WATCH: Debonairs Pizza shop threatened with closure over working conditions A video has surfaced of social activist and former EFF Students' Command leader Mpho Morolane embroiled in a heated exchange with a Debonairs franchise owner. WATCH: EFF expected to address VBS claims The Economic Freedom Fighters will on Tuesday address the media on the VBS Mutual Bank report released by the South African Reserve Bank last, titled The Great Bank Heist. WATCH: 'VBS looters, pay back the money' - DA, EFF in war of words President Cyril Ramaphosa's last oral reply for the year came to an abrupt halt when the DA and EFF exchanged insults in Parliament. Watch. WATCH: Gigaba apologises for pinky finger gesture Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba has apologised unreservedly for making a gesture with his pinky finger at an EFF MP during Parliament's volatile sitting on Tuesday. WATCH: Malema mocks Gigaba? 'We are not playing with ourselves, we are playing music' A video of Julius Malema is circulating on social media in which the EFF leader seemingly mocks Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba. WATCH: 'Pay back the money' - MP's jeer at EFF's Floyd Shivambu in ironic turn of events EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu found himself on the receiving end of MP's jeering in Parliament on Tuesday, when he was heckled to "pay back the money" during a debate on the VBS Mutual Bank scandal. WATCH: EFF in heated brawl at East London Hungry Lion franchise Police have opened a case of assault following a scuffle between members of the Economic Freedom Fighters and staff at a Hungry Lion outlet in East London.

The incident took place on Friday. 'Let all land belong to the state' The radical EFF opposition party has called for expropriation of land without compensation to redress the imbalance in land distribution in South Africa.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.