Correspondent Video of UFS student cleaning up after EFF protesters has social media users at one another's throat A University of the Free State (UFS) student has unwittingly opened a virtual can of worms after a video of him cleaning up after protesters went viral. A screenshot of a UFS student cleaning up after EFF protesters.  (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A University of the Free State (UFS) student has unwittingly opened up a big debate on social media after a video of him cleaning up after protesters went viral. In the video taken on Friday and posted on Facebook by Ruan Bentley, third-year banking and investment management student Eckhard Binding picks up litter that is thrown from a rubbish bin by protesters dressed in EFF T-shirts. As soon as Binding puts it back in the bin, the protesters throw it back onto the ground, and he then picks it up again. By Tuesday, the original video had been viewed more than 1.5 million times. While many felt Binding's actions were justified, others argued that he was undermining the context of the protest, which was a call for the insourcing of cleaning staff at the University of the Free State. According to UFS student paper Irawa, protesters cleared dustbins and intimidated students in the computer labs and library. "A drone which had been recording the protest for at least two days (according to student sources) was destroyed," it reported. In an interview with OFM's Martin van der Merwe on Tuesday, Binding said he was on his way to the library when he passed the protesters. "They were like a tsunami destroying everything in their path and throwing things around," Binding said. Bursary offered "So I decided I would tidy up a bit. I was just so frustrated by the whole thing." After the protesters continued to empty the bin, Binding merely picked up the trash and walked through the crowd of protesters to a different bin to throw it away. "I had the last laugh," Binding told Van der Merwe. More than 6 000 people commented on the video, with some offering Binding money and another offering to pay for his studies. Commenters Ryan Flanagan, Marius Jackson and Algot Nyman each offered Binding R5 000. Osman Ebrahim posted: "...get in touch with me… [I'll] provide you with a bursary to study in any field you want." Many others praised Binding for his gesture. Johan Naude wrote: "Proud of that guy, shows true South African pride by not being intimidated, by anyone, no matter what the circumstances." Interfering with legitimate protest But other commenters were not as congratulatory, arguing that Binding was interfering with a legitimate protest for the insourcing of cleaning staff at the UFS. Naledi Chirwa tweeted: "To those who like celebrating every time a victory for workers is reported, every time cleaners are insourced because of the EFF, you must know that this is what it takes. And this white boy is standing in the middle of EFFSC getting workers insourced." @Mphalane_ tweeted: "A whole entire protest about insourcing workers and people want to celebrate a white man for doing bare minimus, this person is moes trying to tell us how to exhibit our anger. wtf? (sic)" Comments in many cases turned into racist toing and froing, while some attempted a more moderate approach. @Mahlakoma tweeted: "Some people need to learn that littering will not solve their concerns. This is just more work to our fellow brothers & sisters in the cleaning department. I admire the young man's courage & calmness in this situation (sic)." His name is ECKHARD BINDING. And because of this video he received a FULLY PAID bursary and R10 000. Thank you to those 2 ladies! https://t.co/X8joL42c3l  Well done #EckhardBinding you making me proud South African  I voted EFF and still going to vote EFF but I really don't support this kind of approach to our problems. We need to find a different way to get our problems heard. Up up up up EFF  To those who like celebrating every time a victory for workers is reported, every time cleaners are insourced because of the EFF, you must know that this is what it takes. And this white boy is standing in the middle of EFFSC getting workers insourced. https://t.co/OkRlXHQAUd — Naledi Chirwa (@NalediChirwa) March 4, 2019 WATCH: Protesting students bring learning to a standstill at Wits The start of classes and daily administration operations were delayed at the University of the Witwatersrand on Thursday, after the student representative council (SRC) continued with protest action. WATCH: 'VBS looters, pay back the money' - DA, EFF in war of words President Cyril Ramaphosa's last oral reply for the year came to an abrupt halt when the DA and EFF exchanged insults in Parliament. Watch. WATCH: EFF demonstrates for second day at #StateCaptureInquiry Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday continued with his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, as the EFF demonstrated outside for a second day in a row. WATCH: EFF in heated brawl at East London Hungry Lion franchise Police have opened a case of assault following a scuffle between members of the Economic Freedom Fighters and staff at a Hungry Lion outlet in East London.

The incident took place on Friday. WATCH: EFF MP slaps security official at Parliament The Economic Freedom Fighters were caught in yet another scuffle at Parliament on Thursday, when one of their MPs assaulted a security official. WATCH: 'Our land and jobs now!' - EFF launches election manifesto Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema on Saturday launched the party's election manifesto at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve. WATCH: 'EFF is the only alternative' - supporter at manifesto launch Hundreds have filled Giant Stadium in Shoshanguve, north of Pretoria ahead of the Economic Freedom Fighters manifesto launch. WATCH: EFF supporters storm Vodacom stores Self-declared members and supporters of the EFF, many in EFF T-shirts, attacked at least two Vodacom stores over the weekend. WATCH: 'My f*k, Marelize...' - reaction to girl riding bike into rugby posts has people in stitches A video of Namibian Marelize Horn, 19, crashing her bicycle into rugby poles has been going viral, not so much because of her lack of co-ordination, but mostly owing to the reaction of her mother. WATCH: Stop what you are doing - Mboro to 'resurrection' pastor The leader of the Incredible Happenings church, Paseka "Mboro" Motsoeneng, known simply as "Prophet Mboro", told journalists he "cannot allow" pastor Alph Lukau to bring Christianity into disrepute after an apparently staged resurrection. WATCH: 'That's why Julius must take the land' - woman's Clicks rant goes viral Video footage of a woman verbally attacking a fellow customer at a Clicks pharmacy in Durban has been widely circulated on social media. WATCH: Fist bumps, high fives and dance-offs - teacher lets children choose how to say hello A Western Cape teacher has gone above and beyond to make each of her Grade R learners feel special every single morning. Zuleka Smit hands out fist bumps, high fives and dance-offs at her class door instead of a traditional formal greeting. WATCH: 'I am fine for duty' – Correctional services to investigate apparently drunk officer The Department of Correctional Services is investigating an officer who appeared to be intoxicated in a video that went viral on social media.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.