Kyle Cowan Jacob Zuma addresses his supporters after his court appearance in Durban on 8 June 2018. Picture: Felix Dlangamandal/Netwerk24 Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former president Jacob Zuma's
key man in the abuse of the State Security Agency (SSA), over and above
ministers Siyabonga Cwele and David Mahlobo, as well as former DG Arthur
Fraser, was Thulani Dlomo, the former head of Special Operations at the agency. Until recently, Dlomo served
as the ambassador to Japan, a position Zuma handed him in April 2017. President
Cyril Ramaphosa recalled Dlomo last month, two months after he received the Mufamadi
panel report. The ministry of
international relations confirmed to News24 that Dlomo has since returned to
South Africa and that he is "awaiting further instructions". Dlomo was appointed to head
up Special Operations in 2012, three years into Zuma's devastating presidency, which
over nine years oversaw the destruction of capacity at key state institutions,
including the South African Revenue Service (Sars), the Directorate for
Priority Crime Investigations (Hawks), the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA)
and the South African Police Service (SAPS). During his presidency, South
Africans were also subjected to a loss of hundreds of billions of rands through
state capture, a term used to describe the wholesale looting of state coffers,
particularly by the Gupta family, who Zuma counts among his friends. The paths of destruction
cross in one example mentioned in the report, when in 2015, R17m was stolen
from a safe inside the SSA offices. The perpetrators were caught on camera, but
the then-acting head of the Hawks, Berning Ntlemeza, "failed to see the
case through to its logical conclusion". 'Monumental blunder' The report comes amid probes
by the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture, the Mokgoro inquiry into
the fitness of NPA bosses Nomgcobo Jiba and Lawrence Mrwebi to hold office, the
inquiry into the Public Investment Corporation (PIC) and the Nugent inquiry into
maladministration at Sars, which have so far revealed varying levels of
criminality and machinations behind the destruction of law enforcement
capabilities. Of the SSA's Special
Operations (SO) under Dlomo – who famously told colleagues he reports directly
to Zuma – the panel said: "It is clear from the above information and
other information available to the panel that SO had largely become a parallel
intelligence structure serving a faction of the ruling party and, in
particular, the personal political interests of the sitting president of the
party and country. This is in direct breach of the Constitution, the White
Paper, the relevant legislation and plain good government intelligence
functioning." It also stated that it
found a "blatant disregard" and since Zuma came to power in 2009, a
"marked and increased disregard of the legislation", policies and
prescripts that were intended to govern the SSA. Zuma drove the process to
create the SSA, which led to "far more serious problems", the report
found. This included the serious disruption of functions, efficiency and
operations, the excessive concentration of power inside a top-heavy management
structure and a lack of proper focus on foreign intelligence. His push towards a single
intelligence agency and the doctrinal shifts that accompanied it, drove the
core purpose of the SSA away from the prescripts of the Constitution, white
paper and legislation. For this "monumental blunder", Zuma and
others must face consequences that include criminal prosecution, the panel
said.  WATCH: SS Mendi memorial site does not depict enormity of the tragedy -  Cyril Ramaphosa The South African National Defence Force celebrated Armed Forces Day 2019 on Thursday in Cape Town
The SANDF also honoured the bravery of sons and daughters of our country who lost their lives in the fateful 1917 sinking of the SS Mendi. Zuma on land: Less debate, more nationalisation Former President Jacob Zuma said there is too much debate about land expropriation without compensation to his liking, and suggested that land should be nationalised. S.Africa: J. Zuma arrives at his hearing over corruption charges Former South African President Jacob Zuma arrives at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of fraud, racketeering and money laundering. 1ST South Africa's ex-president just signed a record deal Former president Jacob Zuma, who is implicated in a major corruption scandal, has been given a taxpayer-funded record deal. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma case postponed, Jacob Zuma, BLF show support Duduzane Zuma appeared briefly in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Friday. WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma. South Africa's Zuma says he will resign 'with immediate effect' South Africa's President Jacob Zuma has said he will resign "with immediate effect".

Mr Zuma made the announcement late on Wednesday in a televised address to the nation. WATCH: 'It's me, former president Jacob Zuma' - Zuma joins social media Former president Jacob Zuma says he has decided to "move with times" and join various social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. WATCH: Jacob Zuma arrives at court to support son Duduzane Former president Jacob Zuma arrived at the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday show support for his son Duduzane, who has been charged with two counts of culpable homicide. WATCH: Nugent commission deviated from original mandate says Moyane's lawyer Former president Jacob Zuma has entered the fray over the firing of South African Revenue Service (SARS) commissioner Tom Moyane, saying Judge Robert Nugent was not asked to deal with the individual contracts of employees at SARS. PODCAST: Zuma's nine lost years? Ramaphosa shouldn't forget — he was there AUDIO: 2019 is off to a flying start, from Bosasa and the endless inquiries to Solly Msimanga stepping down as Tshwane mayor and electioneering getting into full swing.

This week on POLOTIKI, we discuss former president Jacob Zuma's legacy. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. The Zuma presidency: Scandals and successes Jacob Zuma has faced some controversies during his time as ANC leader. S Africa 'captured by corrupt elements' South Africa's President Zuma feels "anxious" about his future, says ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. WATCH: Mbalula willing to testify at #StateCaptureInquiry Fikile Mbalula on Thursday said he is ready to testify at the state capture inquiry.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.