Poloko Tau Bole International airport in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. (Samson Haileyesus/AP Photo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories South Africa has activated its embassies in Ethiopia and Kenya to establish if any citizens were aboard an Ethiopian Airlines flight that crashed just minutes after taking off from the capital city Addis Ababa on Sunday morning. A local journalist tweeted the flight manifest on Sunday afternoon, which indicated no South African nationals were on board. Department of International Relations and Cooperation (Dirco) spokesperson Ndivhuwo Mabaya said there was an international protocol that required airlines to inform them if any South Africans were aboard a crashed aircraft. Ethiopian Airlines said there were 157 people aboard their Boeing 737 when it crashed around Bishoftu, which is about 50km south of Addis Ababa. The crash happened six minutes after the Nairobi-bound plane took off. President Cyril Ramaphosa in a statement expressed his "great sadness" and sent a message of condolences to affected families, on behalf of the government and the people of South Africa. This is the updated manifest with a break down of nationalities shared by @flyethiopian pic.twitter.com/aY1WE6S2Y1  READ - LATEST: No survivors among 157 aboard Ethiopian Airlines flight involved in fatal crash The disaster has prompted the South African embassies in the two countries into action. Quoting Ethiopian Airlines, Fana Broadcasting Corporate said the plane, which departed the Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa at 08:38 local time, crashed minutes after takeoff, "killing all the 149 passengers and eight crew aboard". Ethiopian Airlines said in a statement released at 11:00 on Sunday that the aircraft, a B-737-800MAX, took off from Addis Ababa's Bole International Airport. "Ethiopian Airlines is establishing a passenger information centre and a telephone number will be available shortly for family and friends of those who may have been on flight ET 302/10 March." * This article has been updated with new information. WATCH: Brick slinging man attacks cops An Mpumalanga man is under police guard in hospital after being shot and injured by police at a school. WATCH: More than 170 left homeless after fire rages through Alexandra Over 100 shacks were destroyed by a fire in Alexandra north of Johannesburg on Tuesday afternoon. WATCH: Grief, anger as Durban community mourns teenagers killed by taxi Grief-stricken Newlands East residents became enraged on Wednesday after a minibus taxi ran into four secondary school pupils in Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, killing three. WATCH: Three Durban schoolchildren die after being hit by a taxi Three schoolchildren have been killed and another is in a serious condition after they were struck by a minibus taxi on Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, KwaZulu-Natal. WATCH: Man says he was assaulted for 'staring' at perpetrator's wife While waiting for an order at a Benoni pizza outlet, a 28-year-old, Ekurhuleni, man was allegedly beaten up by a group of white men and called a k*** allegedly for staring at one of the men's wife. WATCH: Hijacker shoots man in Welkom driveway An elderly man is recovering in hospital after being shot during a hijacking in Welkom, Free State on Friday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.