Duncan Alfreds Lion. (file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The efforts of trackers in the Karoo have been rejuvenated after rangers found fresh spoor in their search for a lion that escaped from the Karoo National Park outside Beaufort West. The male lion, estimated to be between 2 and 4 years old, escaped from the park on February 15 and rangers lost its spoor when it entered a gorge. However, on Friday, they found fresh spoor to track the predator. "This fresh spoor that we are following now actually came from a farmer and we are getting good help to find this lion," Reynold "Rey T" Thakhuli, SANParks general manager for media, PR and stakeholder relations told News24 on Friday. READ: Lost Karoo lion evades rangers, but officials appeal for calm The spoor is more than 60km from the park and was tracked through difficult terrain. Puzzlement Thakhuli expressed the team's puzzlement at the distance the lion travelled. "It's a mystery to me. The area there is quite tough; it's very rocky. You can't even access it with a vehicle and we followed it (the lion) into that rocky area. "It's moving toward the northern part of the park." READ: Rangers get brief glimpse of escaped Karoo Park lion The search team, which has a helicopter on standby as well as a vet, remained in the area where the lion was spotted until well after dark on Thursday, but could not find the animal. The lion last made a kill of an eland several days ago, said Thakhuli, and the rangers have not found any evidence of a fresh kill. "No other kill has been found and it should be very hungry by now. The last kill was last week." The search team has been split to allow some to rest and police members from the livestock unit have joined the search. 'Definite determination' Despite some setbacks, the team is intent on finding the lion and returning him to the park. "They (team members) are tired but there is definite determination to find this lion. We will not rest until we find it and return it to the park," said Thakhuli. Landowners have been advised to report any sightings of the lion to the nearest police station or to call the park directly on 023 415 2828. It's not the first time a lion has gone missing in the area. In 2016, 4-year-old Sylvester the lion went missing and was found after an extensive search. Follow @Duncan025 KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH- 35 Zimbabwean baby elephants are awaiting export to foreign zoos Humane Society Africa says these 35 Zimbabwean baby elephants are awaiting export to foreign zoos.
 They say these animals are destined for China, over 11 000kms away. Giraffe gives lion a piggy-back ride Africa's version of Uber? Cheeky Lion Cub Bites Mother's Tail This little lion cub tested its mother's patience... by trying to bite her tail. Two lions collide in epic impala-hunting fail In the history of the animal kingdom, there is an idea that only the lionesses hunt. This isn't so true. Why SA offers the ultimate camping holiday South Africa is the ultimate camping destination - from our suitable climate to an extraordinarily diverse selection of camping spots - whether you opt to pitch your tent in Kruger, along the Garden Route or along the East Coast. Indonesia celebrates end of Lunar New Year With a significant ethnic Chinese minority, Muslim-majority Indonesia celebrates the end of two-week festivities welcoming the Year of the Pig with traditional lion dances, colourful parades and temples decked out in red lanterns. Kruger buffalo flicks lion into air like a toy The predator – which looks like it's in dire need of a meal – was asleep when a buffalo charged at it and flipped it into the air before chasing it off. Top 10 Things We NEED to See in Aladdin (2019) Is there any way we can get TEN wishes? For this list, we’re taking a look at plot elements and details we’d like to see explored in Disney’s live-action remake of their 1992 animated classic. Top 10 Disney Movies That NEED a Sequel We wish upon a star for sequels to these films. For this list, we’ll be looking at the Disney and Pixar films whose plots, popularity, and/or characters deserve a continuation. We’ll be excluding movies that already have one in the works, such as “Zootopia.” Survivor recounts battle against mountain lion Bashing a mountain lion in the head with a rock didn’t work, so Travis Kauffman changed his tactics and suffocated the cat by jamming his foot on its neck. Kauffman recounted the attack in a news conference 10 days after the attack. Man recounts battle against mountain lion Travis Kauffman was running a trail in the mountains west of Fort Collins, Colorado, when he was attacked by a mountain lion. Tiger killed by potential mate at London Zoo Female Sumatran tiger Melati has been killed by her potential new mate Asim on their first introduction at ZSL London Zoo. Ramaphosa: I will sing Masekela's 'Thuma Mina' if EFF win in May South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa jokingly says that if the Economic Freedom Fighters win elections in May, he will sing Hugh Masekela's song 'Thuma Mina' in Parliament. Ramaphosa was delivering his last state-of-the-nation address ahead of... The 'last' lion dance costume maker Henry Ng believes he is one of the last people to make the lion dance costume in Singapore. Colorado jogger strangles mountain lion after attack A Colorado jogger strangled a juvenile mountain lion in the foothills of Horsetooth Mountain northwest of Denver, acting in self-defense after the predator attacked him, authorities said on Tuesday. Colette Luke has more. Chinese lion dancers train hard for upcoming CNY celebration Lion dancers at the Kaifang Culture headquarters in Hebei jump and somersault while training to do the traditional Chinese lion dance, one of the oldest and most popular Chinese New Year celebration performances. In Beijing, people gather to celeb... Gina Rodriguez to produce new animated series for Disney Actress Gina Rodriguez is stepping back into the world of animation to executive produce a new Disney series titled, 'Diary of a Female President'. Lioness responds with a klap after being rudely awakened by cheeky male A naughty male lion sneaked up on a lioness while she was dozing in the road, and she wasn't too impressed about the interruption. WATCH: Fire engulfs Lion's Head Families living in Sea Point, Cape Town evacuated their homes on Sunday evening as the flames that engulfed the lower slopes of Lion's Head near Quarry Hill were coming down on them. Leopard plays with baby duiker before the inevitable kill At Kruger National Park, a baby duiker was pinned down by a leopard, then licked and cuddled before it tried escaping. Suniel Shetty as fierce warrior in Priyadarshan period thriller After gap of four years, Suniel Shetty is set to make onscreen return with Priyadarshan action packed period thriller ,' Marakkar: The Lion of Arabian Sea'. Sneaky sea lions attempt to snatch diver’s paddles and camera A group of sea lions in Kamchatka preyed on an innocent diver and attempted to steal his equipment. They left empty-flippered! Buffalo attempts to rescue baby elephant from lion's mouth In a rare show of bravery, a herd of buffalo tried to save a baby elephant from a pride of hungry lions. The video shows the lions on top of the upturned calf, trying to kill it. A herd of buffalo from a nearby watering hole heard the commotion. Awkward! Three male lions take turns mating with lioness This lioness's milkshake brought all the boy lions to the yard. This is a video of a lioness having a mating party with three male lions - each taking turns and bumping the other away in an almost playful manner. Indonesia recovers second black box from Lion Air crash The cockpit voice recorder from an Indonesian Lion Air jet that crashed in October was recovered on Monday - a discovery that could be critical to explaining why a brand new plane fell out of the sky just after take-off. Two cute lion cubs make adorable debut at Vladisovstok zoo A in the Russia’s Far East Vladivostok received two adorable white lion cubs. The rare cubs arrived from Belarus and now are nursed by the zoo’s workers. Due to the rarity of the white lions, the babies have weak immune system and fed every two ho... Hangry sea lion hunts for snacks A hangry sea lion was spotted "storming" a truck likely carrying seafood in Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky, Russia. The truck was outside what appeared to a be a fish processing plant. It is common to see packs of sea lions swimming in the area. Hearts will break as you see an eagle take out a baby warthog A baby warthog ran its last run with the family when a martial eagle decided to make it its next meal in Kruger National Park in South Africa. Indonesian divers find crashed Lion Air black box Indonesian authorities on Monday said they will immediately begin to download contents of a cockpit voice recorder from a Lion Air jet that crashed into the sea near Jakarta more than two months ago, killing all 189 people on board. Indonesia recovers Lion Air cockpit voice recorder Navy divers have recovered the cockpit voice recorder of a Lion Air jet that crashed into the Java Sea in October. 'A Lion or a chicken' - Bahrain players must decide which they are ahead of India clash says Soukup Bahrain held a last training session ahead of their crucial AFC Asian Cup 2019 final group match against India at Sharjah Stadium on Monday. Opening the competition with a 1-1 draw against hosts UAE, Bahrain lost their second match 1-0 against Tha... AP Top Stories December 31 Here's the latest for Monday December 31st: Sen. Graham says Trump is ready to make shutdown deal; Lion kills worker in NC conservatory; California authorities catch escaped inmate; 2019 New Year's celebrations begin. Lion kills North Carolina conservatory worker A lion killed a young worker at a wildlife conservatory in North Carolina Sunday after it got loose from a locked space, the center said. The lion was shot and killed after it attacked 22-year-old Alexandra Black. Lion kills young worker at North Carolina wildlife sanctuary A lion at a North Carolina private wildlife sanctuary fatally mauled a 22-year-old worker on Sunday before being shot and killed by local law enforcement. Runaway lion, wounded elk find home in Russian shelter A lion that escaped from an airport, a crocodile found at a rubbish dump and an elk attacked by stray dogs -- all these animals have found refuge in an unusual private shelter in Russia. Dozens of bears have also passed through the Veles centre, j... Boeing sued for wrongful death in Lion Air crash The family of a passenger killed in the crash of Lion Air Flight 610 is suing Boeing. They say pilots were not provided with adequate instructions on the plane's anti-stall system. Sanbona family safari: A lesson in all manner of animal poop, they're unlikely to forget In this special tract of the little Karoo it is all about the conservation of the animals - including the rare white lion. 2017: WATCH: A News24 Festive Season special - politicians 'sing' Last Christmas Watch as South African politicians attempt to 'sing' pop duo Wham!'s 1984 hit single, Last Christmas. Ferocious Lion Fight An animal invader got a lion-sized left-hook from its rival. Mongoose refuses to be lion cubs' chew toy While the young lions seem to be enjoying themselves, the mongoose is not having too much fun. Ranveer Singh is married to big lioness : Sara Ali Khan Sara Ali Khan, who is gearing up for the release of her forthcoming film 'Simmba', has said that she cannot encounter Ranveer since he is married to big lioness Deepika Padukone. Elephant shows baby hippos who's the boss Very protective of her turf, this elephant was not comfy with any visitors. Even if they were just three (seemingly harmless) baby hippos. Holloway on fighting Ortega: ‘A hungry lion vs. a hungry shark’ UFC featherweight champion Max Holloway faces Brian Ortega at UFC 231 in Toronto on Saturday. Holloway says they’re both fighters “on the rise.” Boeing mulls upgrade after Lion Air crash: sources Boeing is weighing plans to launch a software upgrade for its 737 MAX in six to eight weeks that would help address a scenario faced by the Lion Air crew during the deadly crash in Indonesia, according to two people briefed on the matter. Lion Air jet should have been grounded before fatal flight A crashed Lion Air jet should have been grounded over a recurrent technical problem before its fatal journey, Indonesian authorities say. Lion Air jet was "not airworthy" on prior flight A Lion Air jet that crashed into the sea off Indonesia last month was not in an airworthy condition on its second-to-last flight, when pilots experienced similar problems to those on its doomed last journey, according to investigators. Lion Air crash report due to be released Indonesian investigators will deliver their first report into the Lion Air crash on Wednesday, a month after the brand-new Boeing 737 crashed into the sea, killing all 189 on board. Lion calls squad to show hyenas who's the boss of the bush This lion's pride definitely had her back when she was cornered by a group of hyenas trying to steal her kill. It was captured on video in Kruger National Park by 19-year-old student Amber Soames and shared by Latest Sightings. Disney releases Lion King trailer The first trailer of Disney's live-action 'Lion King' remake has been released. New trailer released for Disney's The Lion King Disney have unveiled the trailer for The Lion King set to be released in the UK in July 2019.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.