Jenni Evans Paarl Boys High School (Jenni Evans, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Being hit against the head for not greeting. The "five-star treatment" on your back when your homework isn't done. Spanking with a cricket bat - all in the name of "discipline". These are some of the claims levelled at well-known Paarl Boys' High School - and in particular the deputy headmaster and head of discipline, Richard Visagie - by six sources, including a current parent and former pupils. School management has strongly denied that corporal punishment, which was outlawed in South Africa 23 years ago, is still prevalent at the rugby powerhouse nicknamed "Boishaai" in the Boland. A parent of a young boy, speaking on condition of anonymity, told News24 how their son was "hit on the head" for not greeting. "You get whacked arbitrarily in passages for things - if you don't greet with the right attitude, if you are being 'clever'... The culture of the school is one of violence," said the parent. READ: Mom arrested for 'assaulting' son's teacher with umbrella to 'teach a lesson' According to the parent, punishment ranges from the "five-star treatment" - a hard slap on the back, which leaves the marks of the fingers and thumb; "jungle justice", which is meted out between peers, and being hit with a plank or cricket bat in Visagie's office. The parents would not report it to the school for fear of their already distraught son being "frozen out", nor to the police because it would require a statement by the child whose identity would then be known. Another pupil, who recently left the school, told News24: "Boishaai has become this sort of bastion of masculinity. This whole thing of 'If you're not going to get hit, you're not like one of the guys.' [There's] this constant rhetoric of being a guy, a guy's guy, back to 'How it used to be.'" Also speaking on condition of anonymity, he alleged that his parents were told during his entrance interview for a highly sought-after place at the pristine government school, that corporal punishment was practised. READ #SansSouci: Mom lays charge after teacher slaps child, teacher lays charge of her own His parents were asked if they were "okay" with it and, since it had been a part of schooling from their era, they did not object.  Paarl Boys' High School deputy headmaster, Richard Visagie. (Paarl Boys' High website)  'You have to thank him afterward' Corporal punishment at school was outlawed by the SA Schools Act in 1996. An application by Christian Education South Africa to be exempt on religious grounds, and allow pupils to be punished this way in terms of religious beliefs, was dismissed by the Constitutional Court in 2000. READ: Pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher The former pupil's first hiding was after being sent out of class in Grade 8 for not doing his homework. He was called into Visagie's office and allegedly beaten with a plank. "You must also thank him afterward," he said. The boys would draw stripes on the back of their school ties every time they were beaten. That become "like a badge" to compare who had been hit most. The source said he had decided that it was better to get beaten with the plank as punishment and "get it over with", than go to detention. "I would think, do I really want to spend two and a half hours of my Friday afternoon with the principal in detention? Your teenage boy brain thinks, 'No that's a terrible idea.'" He said that there were teachers who specifically did not send pupils out of the class, in order to avoid them being subjected to corporal punishment. They gave out writing lines or writing out pages from books instead as punishment. "I’m not sad that I went there. I got a good education, but I just think that it has a few faults," the source said. "I would just ask them to change how they look at things. School culture and norms Another old Boys' High pupil, who matriculated in the early 2000s, said it wasn't only Visagie who still practised corporal punishment, but at least two or three other teachers. "I grew up in a house where corporal punishment was the norm. The school was a natural extension of home." Asked why they accepted illegal punishment from teachers, the man said they were told that "things had to be controlled in a way" at a boys' school. He acknowledged that there were other ways to discipline boys, "but there weren't any more cost-effective ways". Corporal punishment was understood to be an integral part of the school's culture and discipline. The man recalls being punished in Visagie's store room, jokingly referred to as "the dungeon". However, he also remembers Visagie as a "brilliant English teacher and rugby coach; not someone you can easily put in a box". Another ex-scholar, who matriculated in the late 1990s, said he accepted that corporal punishment was part of the school's culture. "If you see something that has been working for over 100 years, then you think to yourself, the system probably knows better."  Paarl Boys' High School. (Jenni Evans, News24)  'Done in the name of discipline' Another source told News24 how a group of more than 10 Grade 8 boys recently received the "five-star treatment" after failing to fix a button to their ties and blazers to "mark" them as Grade 8s. "All the Grade 8 boys were gathered in the hall and Mr Visagie asked those without buttons on their ties to leave the hall and stand in a queue. All the boys had to watch as he gave each of them the five-star treatment. Some of the boys started to cry and had blue marks on their backs the next day." Another ex-Paarl Boys' High pupil, who requested to remain anonymous, said it was a well-known fact in the Paarl community that corporal punishment continued to be practised long after the introduction of the Constitution in 1996. "Visagie was the first rugby team coach and untouchable. Everyone knew he was hitting us, but the community condoned it because it was done in the name of 'discipline'." The man said Visagie's "five-star treatment" was a common occurrence when boys neglected or forgot to do their homework. "He would stand behind you and hit you very hard between the shoulder blades. His red hand marks were visible on our backs. Repeat offenders were given a screwdriver to unscrew the wooden plank at the back of their school benches, which Visagie then used to give them a hiding with. Afterward, they had to screw the plank back onto the bench." 'Absolutely not. It's illegal' When interviewed by News24 about the multiple allegations of a culture of ongoing corporal punishment, school governing body (SGB) chairperson Ritzema de la Bat and principal Derek Swart denied that it was happening. "Absolutely not. It's illegal, and all staff members are aware of it," said De la Bat. Asked if parents had signed a document giving permission for corporal punishment, he said: "In terms of legality, such a document, if it had ever existed, would not be worth the paper it's printed on anyway." He said they had only had one complaint before and it was handled by the Western Cape Education Department (WCED). De la Bat said, besides being illegal, corporal punishment was also against the school culture of raising young men who would "have compassion, emotional strength and the ability to make a positive difference". He said that, when he was at school before corporal punishment was outlawed, being caned seemed a quick way to be punished, instead of being called "dumb" for days. He said, with corporal punishment outlawed, teachers had to find new ways of punishing pupils, and sometimes found it difficult because parents were leaving it to the school to deal with ill-discipline. Nonetheless, De la Bat said corporal punishment was "unacceptable in any way".  Paarl Boys' High School. (Jenni Evans, News24)  'It's not our policy' Swart told News24: "It's not our policy. There is no corporal punishment." After a mini-tour of the school on Tuesday, where Swart told boys to pull up their socks and tuck their shirts in, he said the school was strict about the boys' appearance and insisted that they were polite in their interactions with others. But he said parents would not strive to get their children into the school if it had a culture of violence. He said the only way to deal with the allegations of corporal punishment was for parents to come forward for an investigation. "If something is reported, we will act on it immediately," said Swart. "The whole purpose of the school is to produce young men who can make a positive contribution in a negative world." He was not aware of the outcome of a complaint to WCED that the SGB referred to and suggested that WCED itself was asked. He said Visagie was a respected teacher for around 40 years and had received accolades for his work. He added that there was CCTV at the school and, if a child was being hit, it would be detected. Hennie Warnich, chairperson of Paarl Boys’ High School Old Boys' Union, said he was "disturbed" by the claims. "Everybody understands that corporal punishment is illegal. The headmaster himself addressed the staff on more than one occasion on this. "If any incident should ever be reported, the teacher in question would immediately be subjected to a proper investigation, and if allegations are found to be true, the appropriate disciplinary process [would follow]." The school would not allow News24 to interview Visagie without permission from the WCED, according to policy regarding teachers speaking to the media. 'District's has received several complaints' However, the provincial education department revealed that there had in indeed been at least one official misconduct allegation against Visagie. "Our Labour Relations Department has confirmed that the alleged educator was charged with misconduct last year for reportedly hitting a learner. He received a final written warning and a fine on 15th October 2018," said Jessica Shelver, spokesperson for Education MEC Debbie Schäfer. "New complaints were received on the 23rd January 2019 from a doctor who was reportedly treating a learner that was assaulted. "The parents of the alleged learner have reportedly again been reluctant to give consent for consultations. The matter is still under investigation." Shelver said in earlier correspondence said that the department had received several complaints about corporal punishment at the school, but that nobody was prepared to let their children give evidence and testify. "The district has reportedly received several complaints, yet they are not able to take action as parents reportedly do not allow their children to testify in this regard." The complaints were referred to the department's labour relations unit for investigation. She said the department had zero tolerance for corporal punishment and was investigating the allegations against Visagie raised in News24's queries on the subject. Do you have a similar story? Please email any tips to Jenni.Evans@24.com KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Support for Sans Souci teacher following court appearance The teacher charged with the assault of a Sans Souci Girls High School pupil, as well as the teenager she slapped, made their first appearances in the Wynberg Magistrate's Court on Wednesday. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. WATCH: 10-year-old whizz-kid solves complex maths problems in just seconds 10-year-old Sbahle Zwane was in pre-school when his teacher first noticed his extraordinary gift with numbers. The Grade 4 learner first gained popularity for his impressive mental maths skills after videos of him went viral on social media. WATCH. WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. WATCH: State-of-the-art sports ground opens in Philippi FC Bayern captain Philipp Lahm, opened sports ground last Saturday. WATCH: Hundreds gather for emotional night vigil at Hoërskool Driehoek Hundreds of people gathered at Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark for an emotional night vigil, after a concrete slab collapsed at the school, killing three children and seriously injuring 25 others. WATCH: Khayelitsha school bids to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place Chairperson of Enkanini Primary's School Governing Body Andile Lili shows what the school is doing in a bid to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place at the school in Khayelitsha WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral. WATCH: Cape pupil awarded for matriculating after surviving deadly fire Lance Minnies came close to losing his life in a deadly 2016 fire and almost gave up on his studies when he recovered. But it was the hope for a better future and the support of caring people at his school that pulled him through. WATCH: Grade 1 pupil gets ready for big school Starting Grade 1 is a big step for little ones. For Luca (6), getting ready for school took quite some time on Wednesday morning, but he soon got into the swing of things. From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg. WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. WATCH: Suspected Pretoria burglar caught breaking into school A 30-year-old suspect was arrested while breaking into a Pretoria Primary School on Wednesday morning. WATCH: 19-year-old inmate aspires to become neurosurgeon Liam Bradford,19, is an inmate at Boksburg Prison's juvenile section. Bradford dreams of becoming a neurosurgeon to help disabled children. Watch. WATCH: Little Maths genius scores prestigious scholarship In September, 2018, News24 interviewed 10-year-old math genius, Sbahle Zwane.
One month later, the Zwane family received news that Sbahle had been granted a scholarship at the prestigious Curro Academy in Protea Glen, Soweto. WATCH. WATCH: Dancing to a new tune at the Hillbrow music school The youth of the inner-city community of Hillbrow can find solace in music, thanks to Amisi "Coco" Mubale and the Hillbrow Music Centre. Watch. WATCH: SAPS escort pupils to matric farewell in Nyala Making an entrance is an extra bonus point when making a statement at a matric farewell. One couple in particular, turned heads when they rocked up in a police Nyala van escorted by police officers at their farewell in Newcastle over the weekend. Head boy and top achiever ready to 'get his future started' King David High School Linksfield's 2017 head boy, who earned seven distinctions in the IEB matric exams, has some advice for those entering their matric year. WATCH: Limpopo matriculant comes out tops despite textbook, computer shortage Dimpho Phalane, a matriculant at Mampotjane Secondary School in Limpopo, could barely contain her excitement when she realised she was one of the country's top achievers. 'Consistency was key for me' - Rebecca Haines, top matric mathematics achiever Top matric mathematics achiever Rebecca Haines from Rustenburg High School For Girls in Cape Town says her excellent results came down to working consistently. SA's top matriculant missed half the school year due to a rare disease After missing almost six months of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker managed to nab the coveted spot of SA's best matriculant. 'The bigger plan is to become president,' says top matric performer Tumelo Mashigo, part of the class of 2017, hopes to one day be president.

The 18-year-old was the second best performing learner with special needs among the most recent matriculants and hopes to make the world a better place one day.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.