Pelane Phakgadi King Mswati's 12th wife Nothando Dube (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The wife of eSwatini's King Mswati the third, Nothando Dube, has died, according to reports. Known as Inkhosikati LaDube, she was the 12th wife of the Swazi monarch. According to the SABC, Eludzidzini's Royal Palace Traditional Governor Lusendvo Fakudze confirmed the death in an announcement on the eSwatini Broadcasting and Information Services. Read: New bride, his 14th, for Swazi King Mswati the Third "According to reports, she was undergoing skin cancer treatment in an undisclosed hospital in South Africa," the SABC reported. According to the Times of Swaziland, she was survived by three children. She was also known by many after she became a Miss Teen finalist in the country before she joined the royal family in 2004, Mpumalanga News reported. Dube was the monarch's second wife to have died in the space of a year. Mswati's 8th wife, Senteni Masango, also known as Inkhosikati LaMasango, committed suicide last year. Read more: Swazi king’s wife took overdose The Citizen reported that barely a week after the burial of her sister Nombuso Masango, Masango overdosed on about 40 amitriptyline capsules. The paper said Dube would be buried on Sunday. The monarch has 15 wives. Others reportedly left him. In 2017, Mpumalanga News reported that Swaziland's king unveiled a new bride, Siphelele Mashwama, who was 19 at the time. She is a daughter of a Cabinet minister in that country, Jabulile Mashwama. PODCAST | Justice Denied: 'Freedom or death' - the choices for a man wrongfully convicted of murder Imagine spending 13 long years behind bars, for a murder you did not commit.

Boswell Mhlongo doesn't need to imagine... this living nightmare was his life. WATCH: Grief, anger as Durban community mourns teenagers killed by taxi Grief-stricken Newlands East residents became enraged on Wednesday after a minibus taxi ran into four secondary school pupils in Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, killing three. WATCH: Three Durban schoolchildren die after being hit by a taxi Three schoolchildren have been killed and another is in a serious condition after they were struck by a minibus taxi on Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, KwaZulu-Natal. Local hip-hop star HHP dies at 38 Jabulani Tsambo, better known by his stage name Hip Hop Pantsula, has died at the age of 38. WATCH: Prophet Mboro reiterates that he never went to heaven Self-proclaimed prophet Paseka "Mboro" Motsoeneng has reiterated that  he never went to heaven and snapped selfies with Jesus, instead this story was planted by the PR team of another self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri. WATCH: Family 'can't cope' with Sibusiso Khwinana murder The family of murdered Matwetwe lead actor Sibusiso Khwinana said they are saddened by his passing. WATCH: South African paramedic dies in helicopter crash in the UAE A South African paramedic is among four people who died when a helicopter crashed in Ras al-Khaimah in the north eastern region of the United Arab Emirates. WATCH: 1 dead, 1 injured in Valhalla Park gang-related shooting One person was shot dead and another injured in a gang-related shooting in Valhalla Park, Cape Town, on Thursday morning.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.