Canny Maphanga 'No survivors' in Ethiopian Airlines crash, CEO confirms "The group CEO who is at the accident scene right now regrets to confirm that there are no survivors," the airline posted on Twitter alongside a picture. Transport Minister Blade Nzimande says his department will work with its Ethiopian counterpart to investigate this weekend's fatal Ethiopian Airlines crash. "South Africa, through its task team comprising all relevant state-owned entities and agencies, will collaborate with the Ethiopian counterparts to offer any necessary assistance or skill sets to ensure that there is a speedy conclusion of the investigation into this crash," spokesperson Ishmael Mnisi said in a statement on Tuesday. The task team will include the South African Civil Aviation Authority, the Air Traffic Navigation Services and South African search and rescue members. This comes after 149 passengers and eight crew members died when their plane crashed six minutes after taking off from Ethiopia's capital, Addis Ababa, on a flight to Nairobi on Sunday. Expert: expect multiple factors in Boeing crash An aviation expert says investigators can expect to find multiple factors as they look for the cause of an Ethiopian Airlines plane crash that killed 157. The plane was a Boeing 737 Max 8, the latest version of the widely used jetliner. ALSO READ: WATCH: No survivors among 157 aboard Ethiopian Airlines flight involved in fatal crash, and no South Africans on board Boeing's newest plane, the 737 MAX 8 jet, is under scrutiny for safety concerns after another incident less than six months ago with the same model, News24 earlier reported. Ethiopian Airlines has since grounded its Boeing 737 MAX 8 from its fleet following the tragedy. Comair's 'self-grounding' welcomed On Monday, Comair seemingly caved in to public pressure and decided to remove its 737 Max from its flight schedule. The South African Civil Aviation Authority welcomed Comair's "self-grounding", calling the decision commendable as the airline "puts the concerns, interests, and safety of its passengers and crew first". Wrenelle Stander, executive director of Comair's airline division, said: "While Comair has done extensive preparatory work, prior to the introduction of the first 737-8 Max, into its fleet and remains confident in the inherent safety of the aircraft, it has decided temporarily not to schedule the aircraft while it consults with other operators, Boeing and technical experts." ALSO READ: Ethiopian Airlines Crash: Comair pulls new Boeing 737 MAX 8 out of service The cause of the crash is yet to be determined. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 157 killed in Ethiopian Airlines crash A jetliner carrying 157 people crashed shortly after takeoff from the Ethiopian capital Sunday, killing everyone aboard, authorities said. At least 35 nationalities were among the dead. Black box flight recorders Videographic on black box voice and data recorders. Ethiopian Airlines said on Monday it had grounded its Boeing 737 MAX 8 fleet after a crash that killed 149 passengers and eight crew. Busy travel day ahead of Thanksgiving U.S. Airports are busy on Wednesday morning, ahead of Thanksgiving. The airline group Airlines for America expects that Wednesday will be the second busiest day of the holiday period behind only Sunday, when many travelers go home. Several Boeing Max 8 planes grounded after crash Aviation authorities in China, Indonesia and Ethiopia have ordered airlines to ground their Boeing 737 Max 8 planes the day after one crashed in Ethiopia, killing all 157 people on board. Flybmi: Aviation analyst predicts further airline collapses An aviation analyst predicts the collapse of other European airlines in 2019 Search operation underway at Ethiopia plane crash site A search operation is underway at the crash site of the Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 near Bishoftu, a town some 60 kilometres southeast of Addis Ababa. The aircraft crashed minutes after an early-morning takeoff, killing all eight crew and 149 pa... Ethiopia grieves over the death of Simegnew Bekele Ethiopians grieve over the death of Simegnew Bekele, the chief engineer of Ethiopia's giant dam project. Bekele was found dead in his car on July 26 in the capital Addis Ababa. 'There's a hole in the engine' A China Eastern Airlines plane returned to Sydney airport after a technical failure left a hole in an engine casing. Ethiopian Airlines Boeing jet crashes, killing 157 An Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 passenger jet to Nairobi crashed early on Sunday, killing all 149 passengers and eight crew members on board. It was the same model as the Indonesia crash in October which killed 189. Mia Womersley reports Ethiopian Airlines staff honors crash plane crew Ethiopian pilots and flight crew held a mourning vigil on Monday for the victims of a Ethopian Airlines crash which killed all 149 passengers and eight crew members on board. Ethiopia crash probe begins as Boeing shares slide Two 'black box' recorders have been recovered from the site of an Ethiopian Airlines passenger jet that crashed after take-off on Sunday, killing all 157 people on board. Boeing shares slid 9 percent on Monday and a minute's silence was held at a UN Ethiopian Airlines flight to Nairobi crashes with 157 people on board An Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 passenger jet to Nairobi crashed early on Sunday, killing all 149 passengers and eight crew members on board, according to the country's state broadcaster. Mia Womersley reports Investigators examine Ethiopian Airlines black boxes after crash Ethiopian investigators examine the black boxes recovered from an Ethiopian Airlines jet that crashed outside Addis Ababa, killing all 157 people on board. No survivors as Ethiopian Airlines crashes with 157 aboard A Nairobi-bound Boeing 737 crashed minutes after an early-morning takeoff from Addis Ababa Sunday, killing all 149 passengers and eight crew on board, Ethiopian Airlines said as world leaders offered condolences to distraught next-of-kin. Boeing jet under scrutiny after Ethiopia crash Airlines in Ethiopia, China, Indonesia and elsewhere grounded the Boeing 737 Max 8 jetliner Monday after the second devastating crash of one of the planes in five months. China and Indonesia halt Boeing 737 MAX 8 after deadly Ethiopia crash Plane parts are recovered at the site of the Ethiopian Airlines crash that killed 157 people from 33 nations. First Ethiopia-Eritrea flight in 20 years seals peace deal The first commercial flight to leave Ethiopia for Eritrea in 20 years has landed safely in Asmara, sealing a stunning reconciliation between the once warring nations. Ethiopian Airlines grounds Boeing planes in Kenya A spokesman for Ethiopian Airlines said on Monday that the company has grounded all of its Boeing 737 Max 8 aircraft, after one of the planes crashed, killing all 157 people on board. Ethiopian Airlines grounds Boeing 737 MAX 8 fleet after crash Ethiopian Airlines says it has grounded its Boeing 737 MAX 8 fleet after a crash that killed 149 passengers and eight crew, while the Kenyan transport secretary says authorities have been in contact with 25 out of 32 Kenyan families affected by th... China orders its airlines to ground Boeing 737 MAX 8 jets China's aviation regulator said on Monday it had ordered Chinese airlines to suspend their Boeing Co 737 MAX aircraft operations following a deadly crash of one of the planes in Ethiopia the day before.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.