Ntwaagae Seleka Gauteng MEC for sport and recreation Faith Mazibuko. (Picture: Sapa) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Gauteng MEC for sport and recreation Faith Mazibuko has apologised to her subordinates for her behaviour after the leaking of audio clips in which she allegedly tried to force her staff to disregard procurement processes in the construction of sports facilities in order to help the ANC win elections. In a statement issued on Thursday, Mazibuko denied that her instructions to senior managers in the department were illegal. "I wish to reiterate that at no stage did I give unlawful instructions to senior managers in the department except to stress the importance of achieving performance targets of the department and fulfilling promises made to communities as part of service delivery agreements and that this should be carried out within the prescripts of the law," she said. Her statement comes after amaBhungane published parts of the leaked audio clip of a meeting between Mazibuko and senior managers which took place on February 15. In the recordings, Mazibuko is heard shouting in isiZulu and English at a group of employees in a meeting about the building of sports facilities on which a combination of sports can be played.  "You better do it. I want those, no rollover of that money for combi courts. You two! How you do it, even if you go fly a magic, you better do it. Those combi courts, I want to use (them) to campaign to win the elections. I don't want to hear stories, Monica. I want combi courts and no stories. "If you want to give me stories, then give me your resignation letters. I will fire you, you people who are not prepared to spend my money (sic)," Mazibuko is heard saying. One of the employees tries to respond to the MEC who becomes more agitated. LISTEN: Leaked recording captures ANC MEC's rant over expedited delivery "It doesn't matter. Don't tell me (in) English. I want combi courts. Ngithi (I'm saying), or bring your resignation letters. That's all I want. We empower you, you are not empowered. Which department has an Indian that is a CFO, and an HOD who is a mlungu (white)? Ayikho (There isn't one) including national (departments). You must thank me for empowering you. So don't sabotage me, you better do your work or get out (sic)." "MEC we are doing our jobs," replies an employee. Mazibuko continues with her rant: "That's why some departments don't want to see a white woman or an Indian woman. Ababafuni (They don't want them). It is not racism, it's because you like talking English (sic)." 'Unreserved' apology When one of the employees tries to interject, Mazibuko shouts in isiZulu that they must keep quiet and not disrupt her. "No other departments, you two are the lucky ones, you must thank me. I said keep quiet, keep quiet. I don't want to hear anything. You better sort out those combi courts (sic)." "We are working to achieve that MEC," says an employee. In Thursday's statement Mazibuko said she was apologising to the people of Gauteng. "In a meeting held with the executive managers on February 15 in the department of sport, arts, culture and recreation, I raised concerns about lack of implementation of key priority community projects. An audio recording of the discussions of the meeting was leaked to the media. "In a statement I previously issued on the matter I avoided speaking about the contents of the meeting out of respect for confidentiality. The audio recording of the meeting has been widely publicised. Out of frustration for lack of delivery, I became emotional and used inappropriate tone and language to show my frustration at lack of delivery. "I wish to unreservedly apologise to all senior managers who were in the meeting, all staff members in the department, the premier and the people of Gauteng for the tone that I used and my general conduct in the meeting." ANC launches election manifesto South Africa's ruling ANC party launches its election campaign on Saturday ahead of polls in May that it is tipped to win despite recently falling support, internal divisions and a sluggish economy. On Friday, party members including President Cyr... WATCH: 10 million eligible voters are unregistered - IEC Almost 10 million South Africans who are eligible to vote are not registered, the Independent Electoral Commission said on Wednesday. Inside the ANC's Bosasa election war room Bosasa sponsored these war rooms for the past three elections for the ANC, at an estimated cost of R2-million per election. Outa, ANCGP and civil society groups march to union buildings against etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. Thousands marched through the streets of Tshwane on Friday morning. WATCH: ANC paints Joburg yellow demanding service delivery Hundreds of ANC members from greater Joburg – in collaboration with alliance partners Sanco, SACP and Cosatu – are marching to the offices of Mayor Herman Mashaba, Premier David Makhura and Eskom to hand over memorandums demanding service delivery WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. WATCH: 'We are not fighting the ANC' - Mahumapelo ahead of court appearance Former ANC North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo addresses supporters before fighting the NEC decision to disband his PEC at the South Gauteng High Court. WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Magashule defends controversial candidates on ANC lists ANC Secretary General Ace Magashule has defended the inclusion of Bathabile Dlamini, Nomvula Monkonyana and Malusi Gigabaha on the party's lists, despite being implicated in state capture. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. Mabuza back from sick leave, campaigns in Mpumalanga Deputy President David Mabuza has emerged in Piet Retief, Mpumalanga, after he went Russia for a routine medical trip after taking sick leave last month. WATCH: Ramaphosa takes election campaign to Park Station President Cyril Ramaphosa, and Gauteng ANC officials, took to train stations across the province to encourage commuters to vote for the party in the upcoming national elections.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.