Sesona Ngqakamba (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Residents near Kuils River treated themselves to a load of beer on Friday afternoon when a South African Breweries (SAB) truck lost its load between Stellenbosch Arterial Road and the R300. Cape Town Traffic spokesperson Richard Coleman said they were informed that the truck had lost its load and residents were looting beer. "The load must have just shifted and started falling off," Coleman said. WATCH: Capetonians loot overturned SAB beer truck for 'free booze' He said the road was fully cleared at around 17:15. CAPETONIAN WINDFALL : R300 WEST. STELLENBOSCH. CPT. EC. LOOTED UNTIL THE LAST CLOSED BOTTLE WAS pic.twitter.com/tPDbYcKPhw  SAB director of communications Refilwe Masemola confirmed that the brewery company was aware of the incident and described it as "unfortunate". Masemola said the driver had travelled from Stellenbosch and while turning on the R300, lost part of his load. "All our drivers do undertake a stringent safety training and road traffic management training system and this was an unfortunate error and the road has since been cleared," she said. Masemola said about six pallets of beer were looted. The rest of the crates were empty, she said. WATCH: Oh beer! Crates of alcohol crash out of beer truck in Cape Town It was unhappy hour for a truck driver who lost a huge load of beer after attempting to turn his vehicle in South Africa on Friday. WATCH: Strong winds whip Western Cape, blow truck over Strong winds whipping the Western Cape blew a truck over in Klawer on Saturday morning, provincial traffic officials confirmed. WATCH: Dashcam captures truck driver's close call A truck driver was left shaken after narrowly missing an oncoming lorry overtaking a tractor on the N7. WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. WATCH: Intercape bus driver suspended after being filmed driving recklessly There have been a numerous fatalities and mishaps on SA's roads since the beginning of the festive season.

Now, as we enter the height of celebrations, more reports of risky driving and fatalities have emerged. WATCH: 2 men catch ride on back of truck carrying flammable liquid Two men were spotted on Monday catching a ride on the back of a truck carrying flammable liquid on a freeway in Johannesburg. WATCH: Dashcam footage shows Mpumalanga two-truck head-on collision Two trucks collided head-on, while a third was pushed off the road, along the Bathel to Kriel road in Mpumalanga on Friday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.