Kamva Somdyala South African President Cyril Ramaphosa. (Photo by Rodger BOSCH / AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories DA MP Sandy Kalyan says President Cyril Ramaphosa should not make any financial commitments to Zimbabwe because of what she calls the country's continued campaign of political repression as well as South Africa's escalating debt burden. Ramaphosa arrived in Zimbabwe on Monday night to co-chair the Bi-National Commission (BNC) with his Zimbabwean counterpart President Emmerson Mnangagwa. Relations between the two countries are conducted through the BNC which was established in 2015. South African exports to Zimbabwe totalled R30.8bn while imports from Zimbabwe amounted to R3.6bn in 2018. Kalyan said Ramaphosa could not continue funding a country that oppresses dissenting voices while also compounding South Africa's fiscus. WATCH: Ramaphosa takes election campaign to Park Station President Cyril Ramaphosa, and Gauteng ANC officials, took to train stations across the province to encourage commuters to vote for the party in the upcoming national elections. "South Africa cannot afford to compound our own fiscal problems by draining our fiscus to prop up the state repression in Zimbabwe. Economic prosperity in Zimbabwe depends on a solid foundation of good governance in the country, and the Ramaphosa administration must therefore support efforts to strengthen democracy in that country," said Kalyan. "Ramaphosa must use the current bilateral talks to reinforce pressure on the country to cease its repression of dissenting voices and political opposition. "The lives and the freedom of a nation hang in the balance. The DA stands firmly behind the people of Zimbabwe and supports the continuation of sanctions against members of the brutal military regime until democracy is restored in Zimbabwe and its people are freed from state violence and political repression," added Kalyan. Ramaphosa's delegation includes the ministers of finance – Tito Mboweni; home affairs – Siyabonga Cwele; deputy minister of social development – Hendrietta Bogopane-Zulu and defence and military veterans – Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula. According to Ramaphosa's spokesperson, Khusela Diko, South Africa and Zimbabwe are signatories to 45 agreements which include trade and investment, labour, migration, defence, water and the environment. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter When the president doubles your KPAs on national television - this is what you do This was the head of South African Tourism Sisa Ntshona's reality after President Cyril Ramaphosa's SONA announcement to increase its tourist numbers to 21-million a year by 2030. We caught up with him at Meetings Africa WATCH: SS Mendi memorial site does not depict enormity of the tragedy -  Cyril Ramaphosa The South African National Defence Force celebrated Armed Forces Day 2019 on Thursday in Cape Town
The SANDF also honoured the bravery of sons and daughters of our country who lost their lives in the fateful 1917 sinking of the SS Mendi. WATCH: Businessman Patrice Motsepe says it's right that politicians hold companies to account He says however, having relatives in very high positions in government justifiably raises perceptions of favouritism. He remains adamant that he is not being favoured by his relationship with President Cyril Ramaphosa and Energy Minister Jeff Radebe. WATCH: Bill Gates voices optimism about Africa in AU speech President Cyril Ramaphosa was in Ethiopia for the 32nd ordinary session of African Union heads of state on Saturday.
He met with Microsoft chairman Bill Gates at a gala dinner hosted by Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed. PODCAST: #SONA2019 | Focus on the economy (almost a Mbeki-type speech) This week on POLOTIKI we discuss President Cyril Ramaphosa's second State of the Nation Address, delivered on Thursday evening during a joint session of Parliament. WATCH: Unpacking Ramaphosa's job creation plan News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and Head of Video Jerusha Sukhdeo-Raath discuss President Cyril Ramaphosa's plans for job creation that he announced during the State of the Nation Address on Thursday. Watch. WATCH: Understanding the 'end of Eskom as we know it' News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and News24 Head of Video Jerusha Sukhdeo-Raath discuss the 'unbundling' of Eskom that was announced in President Cyril Ramaphosa's second State of the Nation Address on Thursday. WATCH: Ramaphosa enjoys rare chance to practice his swing President Cyril Ramaphosa took to the golf course for the annual Presidential Golf Challenge at the Atlantic Beach Golf Estate in Melkbosstrand on Friday. WATCH: News24 analysis of Ramaphosa's 'feel-good' SONA News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and News24 Head of Video Jerusha Sukhdeo-Raath discuss the tone and substance of President Cyril Ramaphosa's second State of the Nation Address. WATCH: What would the Ramaphosa-Malema-Maimane band be called? If President Cyril Ramaphosa formed a band with EFF leader Julius Malema and DA leader Mmusi Maimane, what should it be called? WATCH: Mixed reaction to Ramaphosa's SONA speech While some political figures lauded President Cyril Ramaphosa's second State of the Nation speech, others dismissed it as 'lip service' and 'a campaigning speech'. Watch. WATCH: Ramaphosa's reincarnated Scorpions a 'seminal moment' in SONA 2019 News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson calls President Cyril Ramaphosa's announcement that he will bring back a Scorpions-like unit to help root out corruption a 'major announcement' during post-SONA analysis. There will prosecutions and people will go to jail - Cyril Ramaphosa assures investors President Cyril Ramaphosa has said that SA welcomes investors at the Mining Indaba with open arms and has emphasised that SA and Africa are destinations that can offer great value.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.