Ethan Van Diemen (Supplied, MeloCares Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The marriage of Muneer Hercules and Maryam Kallie was anything but ordinary. Instead of a religious building or courthouse, the couple was joined in marriage at a hospital in Gatesville, Cape Town. Walking down the passage of the hospital in her exquisite bridal gown, holding a bouquet of pink roses, the veiled bride, Maryam Kallie, approached her injured husband-to-be who was recovering after he was attacked at his home the previous evening in a robbery. Pictures posted on Facebook show a bed-ridden Muneer next to Maryam as they make their way down a corridor, accompanied by family members and religious representatives who officiated.  Melomed Private Hospitals gave the blessing for the nikkah, or Muslim wedding ceremony, to be held in the hospital and the couple quickly adapted their plans - not allowing the criminal event to stop them from tying the knot. Read: Iranian couple arrested for getting engaged in front of a crowd in shopping mall Speaking to News24, Shameema Adams of Melomed stated that "the patient was brought into Melomed Gatesville trauma unit on Saturday evening 9 March. The main priority of the medical team was to ensure the medical stabilisation of the patient and good clinical outcomes. We then learnt of his wedding to take place the following day. The management and staff of Melomed tried their best to accommodate for this special event to continue as planned and arranged for the ceremony to take place at the hospital for the couple and their families." Adams continued: "It was the first wedding ceremony held at the hospital and something very special that we will remember. The medical team, nursing and staff all played an integral part of this event." WATCH: 'A fairy-tale day' as homeless couple exchanges wedding vows A dream came true for Llewellyn Jenniker and Cecilia Jenniker on Tuesday when the homeless couple, who've been living together on the streets for decades, finally tied the knot. 5 local celeb proposals that had us swooning Do you hear that sound? It's called wedding bells! 6 local co-stars who dated or got hitched From 7de Laan to Scandal! we take a look at six well-known South African celebrity couples who found love in the arms of their co-stars. 'Dirty Dancing' wedding dance goes wrong Very wrong. Woman blows up wedding dress during divorce party A woman celebrated her new single life in explosive fashion - by blowing up her wedding dress at her divorce party. Slimming World's Woman of the Year drops 13 dress sizes to fit into wedding outfit Maxine Wren, from Chester-le-Street in County Durham, dropped 13 dress sizes - going from a 36 to an 8/10 - to be named Slimming World's Woman of the Year 2018. You know you've drunk too much when this happens Man at wedding walks from table to table and falls down. Couple have double wedding - with their pet rabbits Art teacher Emma Zucker and photographer Ben have tied the knot with a lavish double wedding - alongside her two rabbits, who met speed dating. Sherpa met Hal at an adoption centre as her bunny beau. Couple have first Viking wedding in nearly 1,000 years Instead of Here Comes The Bride, a former beautician was serenaded by Norse throat singers as she married her carpenter groom in the first genuinely Viking wedding in nearly 1,000 years. Thousands marry at South Korea mass wedding South Korea's controversial Unification Church holds a mass wedding with about 4,000 couples from 64 countries exchanging marriage vows.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.