Two elderly best friends who'd lost touch for 70 years have been reunited after moving to the same care home – in a complete coincidence. Nora Boardman (91) relocated to a new care home, Crispin Court in Stafford in the UK, last August and was stunned when long-lost pal Eileen Gill (89) arrived in January. The pair – who were childhood best friends – recognised each other straight away despite having spent seven decades apart. "I never thought I’d see Eileen again after we went our separate ways as children – so it was so nice to see her," Nora says. "I couldn't believe she was now going to be living in the same care home as me and we'd get to see each other every day. "I feel lucky to have my best friend back in my life. It feels like nothing has changed." The friends both grew up in Eccleshall, Staffordshire, but Eileen later moved to the village of Brewood – which resulted in the pair losing touch. Eileen left school before she was a teenager and went to work on a farm, while Nora completed school and then went to work for a company that manufactured hand grenades. But 70 years later, the once-inseparable schoolgirls now spend their days causing mischief in their care home. "We try to spend a lot of time together – if we don't see each other much during the day, we'll always have dinner together. "Eileen will come behind me and touch my arm to let me know she's there," Nora says. During their time apart, the besties both got married – Eileen was married to husband Ted for 49 years before he passed away 14 years ago, and Nora was married to Bob for 55 years before he died four years ago.  "The day I got married was the best day of my life – it honestly was," Eileen says. "Ted was so good to me and I miss him so terribly much." While Nora doesn’t have any children, Eileen has three, two daughters and a son, as well as six grandchildren and two great-grandchildren, all of whom come to visit regularly. As Nora doesn't have any family, Eileen's have taken her under their wing. "They've all been very nice to me – I feel like an extended part of their family," Nora says. "I couldn't feel happier that we're now reunited and get to reminisce on our old memories as well as creating new ones." Source: Magazine Features