Jenni Evans Ferdi Barnard in 1996 (Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Justice and Correctional Services Minister Michael Masutha has approved the placement on full parole of Ferdinand Barnard with effect from April 2, 2019, the Ministry of Justice and Correctional Services announced on Thursday. Barnard was sentenced to life imprisonment in June 1998 after being convicted on numerous charges including, murder, attempted murder, defeating the ends of justice and unlawful possession of firearms. He has served more than 20 years of his sentence. One of the two murder charges was in connection with the killing of anti-apartheid activist and Wits University academic Dr David Webster in 1989. Webster was shot and killed at the behest of the apartheid police’s security branch, the Civil Co-operation Bureau (CCB). In reaching the decision, Masutha had satisfied himself that Barnard had met all requirements for parole, the department said. "As part of the consultations prior to finalising his decision, Minister Masutha personally engaged with Ms Maggie Friedman, Dr Webster's partner. After raising her concerns with Minister Masutha, Ms Friedman indicated that she had no objection to the placement of Mr Barnard on parole." According to Masutha's spokesperson Max Mpuzana: "The CCB misinformed Mr Barnard and told him that Dr Webster, a pacifist, was involved in terrorist activities." 34 charges The SA Press Association reported in 1998 that Barnard had pleaded not guilty to 34 charges ranging from murder and attempted murder to fraud and intimidation. The charges also included the attempted murder of the late justice minister Dullah Omar in 1989.Webster was shot dead on May 1, 1989 outside his house in Troyeville, Johannesburg, which he shared with his partner Maggie Friedman. His shooting in broad daylight shocked and horrified the human rights and anti-apartheid community.An anthropologist by qualification, Webster had also been studying the effects of torture on detainees during apartheid as part of his broader studies. Masutha said this decision does not mean the end of Barnard's life sentence. The Community Corrections Office will supervise and monitor him as he serves the remainder of his sentence in the community for the rest of his natural life. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter PODCAST | Justice Denied: 'Freedom or death' - the choices for a man wrongfully convicted of murder Imagine spending 13 long years behind bars, for a murder you did not commit.

Boswell Mhlongo doesn't need to imagine... this living nightmare was his life. PODCAST | Justice Denied: 13 years for a rape he didn't commit Think back on the past 10 years and the many things you've done. Now imagine losing more than a decade.This is what happened to Njabulo Ndlovu. One summer's evening in 2002 his life changed in ways he could not have imagined. WATCH: 19-year-old inmate aspires to become neurosurgeon Liam Bradford,19, is an inmate at Boksburg Prison's juvenile section. Bradford dreams of becoming a neurosurgeon to help disabled children. Watch. WATCH: Vicki Momberg shown support after leave to appeal application is postponed Former estate agent Vicki Momberg, who was convicted in connection with a racist rant, was back in the dock in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Wednesday - this time to apply for leave to appeal her effective two-year jail sentence. WATCH: Vicki Momberg sentenced to 2 years in prison for using the k-word Former real estate agent Vicki Momberg was sentenced to an effective two years in prison by the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Wednesday for her racist tirade in 2016. The court sentenced her to three years, with one year suspended. WATCH: Leeuwkop prison surprise raid: Dagga, shanks and cellphones found On Thursday morning the Department of Correctional Services executed a surprise raid at Leeuwkop prison in Johannesburg, catching inmates off guard and revealing their illicit possessions. WATCH: 127 inmates receive qualifications at inspirational graduation ceremony The Department of Correctional Services handed out 127 qualifications, including one master's degree, to graduating offenders on Friday. Watch the video above. WATCH: Courtney Pieters' killer gets two life sentences for her rape, murder The Western Cape High Court has sentenced Mortimer Saunders to two life sentences for the rape and murder of 3-year-old Courtney Pieters. #ReleaseMartha: Son of murdered husband threatens to take matters into own hands Relatives of Martha Marumo's deceased husband say if she receives a presidential pardon for the murder of Clitus Marumo, "something is going to happen". WATCH: Boeremag 'master bomb maker' says Leeuwkop prison rehabilitated him In a bid to provide a peek into the lives of prisoners and the challenges faced in South Africa's correctional facilities, the Department of Correctional Services took the media on a tour of the Leeuwkop facility. WATCH: Family 'can't cope' with Sibusiso Khwinana murder The family of murdered Matwetwe lead actor Sibusiso Khwinana said they are saddened by his passing. WATCH: IPID denies timing of Phahlane's arrest is 'suspicious' Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) Spokesperson Moses Dlamini has denied allegations that Khomotso Phahlane's arrest was a show for the media. WATCH: Rohde 'used wife's body as a show house' to sell his story – Judge Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe referenced Jason Rohde's history as the former CEO of Lew Geffen Sotheby's International Realty by comparing the staging of his wife's suicide to the staging of a house by estate agents.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.