Correspondent A man has escaped with minor injuries after crashing his car into a pole on the N1 towards Paarl near Plattekloof road (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A man in his 20s had a very lucky escape after an accident left his car wrapped around a pole along N1 toward Paarl near Plattekloof on Friday morning. When paramedics and emergency services arrived on the scene at 05:00, they found the car completely ripped open. "The driver was still in his seat when paramedics arrived at the vehicle," said ER24 spokesperson Werner Vermaak. Vermaak said the man was assessed and found to have only a broken leg and few scrapes and bruises. Woman in critical condition after Audi horror crash A woman is in a critical condition after the Audi she was traveling in veered off the road, became airborne and slammed into a sign post, emergency services have said. "Paramedics treated him on the scene and later transported him to a nearby hospital for further care," he added. The exact circumstances surrounding the incident are unknown.    KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Vehicles spin out on icy Oklahoma City roads Multiple vehicles spun out of control on slick, icy roads in Oklahoma City on Wednesday evening during a busy commute. Grammy's boss put Ariana Grande feud to bed amid lying accusations Ariana Grande has been wished well by Grammy's boss Ken Ehrlich after the she allegedly accused him of lying about the reasons she's not performing at the upcoming awards. TaMo to launch EVs in 2-3 years Tata Motors plans to roll out its electric vehicle for the personal buyer space in the next two years. The new vehicles will have a higher range of 200-250 km on a single charge unlike the ones in the market currently that operate in a range of 14... TaMo to launch TVs in 2-3 years Tata Motors plans to roll out its electric vehicle for the personal buyer space in the next two years. The new vehicles will have a higher range of 200-250 km on a single charge unlike the ones in the market currently that operate in a range of 14... Are We Already Going Extinct RIGHT NOW? The human race has walked the Earth for 200,000 years or more, but is our time on this planet coming to an end? With the threats of global warming, war and disaster looming large, are our days numbered? According to some of the experts, we're already in the middle of the Holocene extinction... But what does that mean? And how much trouble are we in?? WATCH: Fire rages through Paarl mountains Firefighters are battling a fire raging through the mountains in Paarl, Western Cape. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. Actor Smollett allegedly lied about hate crime Actor Smollett allegedly lied about hate crime Pope vows war on abuse; survivors say let down Pope Francis has promised zero tolerance on sex abuse at the end of a landmark conference. But survivors and activists say without concrete action such as defrocking abusing bishops, they don't trust the Church to police itself. Lucy Fielder reports Emma Thompson pulled out of Luck to send message to daughter Emma Thompson refused to work with John Lasseter on upcoming animation 'Luck' because she was determined to make a stand to "protect [her] daughter's generation". NSW Premier sticks by Powerhouse move despite report NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian and state transport minister Andrew Constance speaking to media in freshly dug tunnels underneath Martin Place in Sydney about the progress of the Metro project. Berejiklian says there is a lot at risk in the upcomin... NSW Premier sticks by Powerhouse move despite report NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian and state transport minister Andrew Constance speaking to media in freshly dug tunnels underneath Martin Place in Sydney about the progress of the Metro project. Berejiklian says there is a lot at risk in the upcomin... Bye Bye Car Driverless cars will be how we move around in the future. In 10 years' time, Ford Motors' Bill Ford says his company will sell mobility, not cars. We ask the experts, including Tesla pioneer Elon Musk, what they think the future has in store for us. Dozens killed and injured in crash and fire at Cairo's main railway station At least 25 people were killed and 50 injured in the accident, state television reported. Artificial Intelligence to keep trucks full A lot of trucks on the road carry little or no freight. That is not efficient. Hamburg startup Cargonexx has developed a tool called MANNI to increase utilization rates and decrease transport costs and thereby reduce CO2 emissions. These cars will DRIVE you crazy! Irkutsk man creates Mad Max-inspired vehicles Roman Nikitin, a car-enthusiast from Irkutsk, has stunned the internet with his customised cars resembling vehicles from the Hollywood blockbuster Mad Max. Venezuelans face expensive, unreliable transportation system Every day, Venezuelans face enormous lines and overcrowded buses in their daily commute. They must plan hours ahead to arrive on time, and some have resorted to walking as they can’t afford public transportation. NSW Premier tours "underground cathedral" as Metro progresses NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian and state transport minister Andrew Constance speaking to media in freshly dug tunnels underneath Martin Place in Sydney about the progress of the Metro project. Berejiklian says there is a lot at risk in the upcomin... Video shows train leave with baby but not dad A surveillance video from a transit authority in Cleveland shows a man step off a train to smoke a cigarette and then frantically chase the train when it leaves with his baby on board. The statement says the baby was reunited with the father. The Chopper War The helicopter, invented by Frenchman Louis Breguet, first played a major role in war during the Vietnam conflict. There, the Americans developed the concept of "air mobility". George Clooney injured in Italy scooter accident The American actor and director George Clooney was injured in a scooter accident on the Italian island of Sardinia. WATCH: Firefighter fight blaze to save hectares of Paarl fynbos destroyed in fire At least 500ha of 15-year-old fynbos was lost in the fire that swept through part of Paarl mountain, the Drakenstein municipality said as they scaled down on operations on Friday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.