Sesona Ngqakamba Artist Mandla "Mampintsha" Maphumulo has been arrested and is currently in police custody, in connection with an alleged assault on gqom artist Bongekile "Babes Wodumo" Simelane. She filmed the incident on her Instagram account. According to national police spokesperson Vishnu Naidoo, "the suspect in the Babes Wodumo assault case has been arrested and is currently in police custody." He said the person would appear in court soon. Here are 7 things you may not have known about Babes Wodumo She's one of the most popular female artists in South Africa at the moment, but how well do you actually know Babes Wodumo? (Photos: Gallo Images) According to eNCA, Mampintsha's lawyer said his client has opened a counter case of assault against Simelane. He said Mampintsha was defending himself in the video. READ: Babes Wodumo a no-show at press briefing, as family express gratitude to SA for support This is a developing story. WATCH: Robbers make off with woman's phone, bag as she walks in Muizenberg SAPS confirmed that a case of robbery was reported at Muizenberg police station on Tuesday 19 February 2019. The incident allegedly occurred on 9 February at approximately 07:40. WATCH: Vicki Momberg shown support after leave to appeal application is postponed Former estate agent Vicki Momberg, who was convicted in connection with a racist rant, was back in the dock in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Wednesday - this time to apply for leave to appeal her effective two-year jail sentence. WATCH: Agrizzi, van Tonder and Gillingham appear in dock The Hawks on Wednesday arrested six suspects on allegations of corruption, money laundering and fraud relating to Bosasa. A warrant of arrest has been issued for a seventh suspect. WATCH: Closing arguments in Rohde trial - was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband Jason violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: IPID denies timing of Phahlane's arrest is 'suspicious' Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) Spokesperson Moses Dlamini has denied allegations that Khomotso Phahlane's arrest was a show for the media.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.