Jeanette Chabalala in Mahikeng Pieter Doorewaard and Phillip Schutte (Tiro Ramatlhatse, Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The two men convicted of killing Coligny teen Matlhomola Moshoeu will spend 18 and 23 years in prison. In imposing an 18-year sentence on Pieter Doorewaard and 23-year sentence on Phillip Schutte on Wednesday, North West High Court Judge Ronnie Hendricks said the murder was not planned and not premediated. He said the court found the incident happened as a result of dolus eventualis. LIVE: 2 men found guilty of #Coligny teen's murder sentenced 18 and 23 years in prison WATCH: 'I miss him every day' - Mother of murdered Coligny teen Pieter Doorewaard and Phillip Schutte were found guilty of murdering 16-year-old Matlhomola Moshoeu after they had caught him stealing a sunflower in Coligny. They were also found guilty of kidnapping, intimidation, theft and pointing a firearm. Doorewaard and Schutte were found guilty of murder, kidnapping, intimidation, theft, and pointing a firearm in November 2018. Sixteen-year-old Moshoeu died on April 20, 2017, after he was thrown from a moving vehicle. The men, however, claimed that he jumped from a vehicle while they were on their way to the police station with him after they caught him stealing sunflower heads at a farm. Moshoeu's death sparked protests in the area and several houses and businesses were burnt to the ground. Some residents claimed he was killed because he was black. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   WATCH: Two farm workers accused of killing Coligny teen found guilty Two farm workers accused of killing a 15-year-old Coligny teen were found guilt of murder in the North West High Court in Mahikeng on Wednesday. WATCH: Stealing Sunflowers | A News24 Documentary on race relations in Coligny News24 explores the events surrounding the death of 16-year-old Matlhomola Mosweu and how it changed the small North West town of Coligny forever.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.