Kamva Somdyala NSRI. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Simon's Town National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) on Tuesday rescued a fisherman believed to have had a stroke after receiving a request for medical assistance from a fishing trawler south of Cape Point in Cape Town. The NSRI duty crew was activated at around 08:00 by the Transnet National Ports Authority. A government emergency medical services (EMS) duty doctor was called to evaluate the man's condition and they found that he might have had a stroke, according to NSRI Simon's Town station commander Darren Zimmerman. "The sea rescue craft Spirit of Safmarine III was launched, accompanied by a Cape Medical Response rescue paramedic team, an SA Air Force Oryx helicopter, NSRI rescue swimmers and Western Cape government health EMS rescue paramedics," said Zimmerman. Read: Cape Town fisherman bitten by shark he tried to save from nets The fisherman, 34, was stabilised and transferred onto the sea rescue craft into the care of paramedics. "It was determined that the patient was stable enough to remain on the sea rescue craft and did not require to be airlifted into the Air Force helicopter that was at the scene," added Zimmerman. The man has now been transferred to hospital for further care. Earlier this month, a Cape Town fisherman, 46, sustained shark bites to his left forearm and left upper arm while trying to release a 2.5m shark that had been caught in a trawler's fishing nets and had been hauled aboard. Last month, 10 crew members were rescued after their fishing vessel sank off the west coast of the Western Cape near Saldanha Bay. WATCH: Beached whale was 'suffering, in process of dying' "We may never know why the animal was stranded," Lieze Swart of the Department of Environmental Affairs (Oceans and Coasts) told News24, after an 11m sub-adult Humpback whale beached at Yzerfontein earlier this week. WATCH: Hout Bay, Cape Town, rioters block roads, torch factory over fisherman's death Protesters in Hangberg, Hout Bay took to the streets on Monday to "fight for their brother" who went missing during an anti-poaching operation at sea. WATCH: Two men who saved man from drowning on beach on New Year's Day say they aren't heroes Two young men put their own lives at risk to save a stranger from drowning on a Western Cape beach on New Year's Day. 
When Dewald van der Westhuizen (22)  and Hannes Swart (22) noticed a man in trouble, they swam to his aid, without thinking twice. WATCH: KZN hailstorm kills hundreds of falcons, more than 1000 rescued A massive rescue effort was launched in KwaZulu-Natal over the weekend, after a hailstorm hit a roosting site for migratory falcons. Watch. WATCH: Alex hero saves stranded child A video of a man slowly shimmying his way across the Jukskei River to rescue a child stuck midway on a pipe has gone viral on social media.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.