Canny Maphanga, Pelane Phakgadi and Sesona Ngqakamba (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Two schoolboys from Reiger Park in Boksburg have been arrested for the rape of a 13-year-old girl. The boys – aged 16 and 17 – allegedly raped the 13-year-old on February 28. The incident was reported on March 6, according to the Boksburg Advertiser. The school cannot be named to protect the identity of the girl. The girl, who was late for school, had entered the premises by climbing over the fence. That is when the boys allegedly grabbed her and dragged her into a bush where she was raped. The boys allegedly filmed the entire attack. Gauteng police spokesperson Kay Makhubele has confirmed to News24 that two minors have been arrested and that they will appear in court soon on charges of rape. The Gauteng Department of Education said it was outraged by the incident. 'Shocking and concerning' The victim apparently did not inform her parents immediately as she was scared. She is currently receiving medical attention, department spokesperson Steve Mabona said. Mabona said the two boys had been arrested and subsequently released into the custody of their parents. He added that the boys had been suspended from school until their appearance at a disciplinary hearing. "The police visited the school to interact with another learner who is alleged to have recorded the rape incident. However, it has emerged that the video has since been deleted," he said. Mabona added that a psycho-social unit team was at the school offering counselling services to learners. "It is shocking and concerning to see incidents of learner sexual assaults taking place in our environment. This is indeed worrisome," Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi said. On Tuesday, News24 reported that three Grade 8 pupils had been suspended from Fons Luminis Secondary School in Diepkloof, Soweto, for allegedly raping a fellow pupil on Friday. The three were suspended on Tuesday morning, following a meeting between Lesufi, parents and members of the school governing body.  WATCH: Malema condemns rape threats after EFF posts Karima Brown's number Speaking after his birthday celebrations in Ekhuruleni, EFF leader Julius Malema on Tuesday condemned rape being used as a threat. WATCH: Courtney Pieters' killer gets two life sentences for her rape, murder The Western Cape High Court has sentenced Mortimer Saunders to two life sentences for the rape and murder of 3-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. WATCH: Life sentences for Hannah Cornelius' murderers The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.