Sesona Ngqakamba An empty classroom Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories From shootings, stabbings and fights to fatal tragedies, the first term of the 2019 academic year in Gauteng has been a difficult one. In the latest incident, a 19-year-old Grade 11 Mondeor High School pupil was stabbed to death on Wednesday while walking to school. Three suspects have been arrested in connection with the incident. READ: 'I want my son' - mother of pupil who was stabbed to death while walking to school Here are just a few incidents that took place at schools in the province in the last three months: WATCH: Suspected Pretoria burglar caught breaking into school A 30-year-old suspect was arrested while breaking into a Pretoria Primary School on Wednesday morning. Early in February, South Africa woke up to the news that a concrete slab had fallen on 26 pupils at Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark resulting in the death of four and injuring several others. READ: 'Their screams are still lingering in my mind -witness to Hoerskool Driehoek tragedy The school was closed for a few days while the Gauteng education department appointed a team of structural engineers to conduct an analysis of the school premises. A matric pupil collapsed and died at the school in Benoni in February during a physical training session. READ: Matric learner dies at a Benoni school after collapsing during physical training A 18-year-old pupil at the school was caught in the crossfire in February when gunmen entered the premises of Dowerglen high school in Erkuhuleni and started firing random shots. READ: Teenager rushed to hospital after being hit by stray bullet at Dowerglen high school Two suspected robbers died at Edenvale high school in February during a robbery shootout. Another was injured. No pupil or teacher was harmed during the incident at the school. The school's principal, Dr Larry Harmer, told the media that a suspect came to the gate and said that he wanted to fetch his child. Upon entry, he asked for the keys to the safe. Police were alerted to the robbery, and a shootout ensued. Six people were arrested in connection with the incident. READ: Two more suspects arrested for Edenvale high school robbery Also in February, a 13-year-old Grade 6 pupil committed suicide after her peers at Doornpoort Primary School pupil in Pretoria allegedly bullied her on WhatsApp. It was reported that the pupil had allegedly distributed an image and this was forwarded on WhatsApp groups. It is alleged that other pupils teased the girl about the image. ALSO READ: Bullying allegations surface in teen suicide in Pretoria - Sinoville crisis centre On Wednesday, following the death of the Mondeor High School pupil, Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi said it was saddening that the department was issuing death certificates to parents instead of report cards. He said the department was heartbroken by all the incidents that have been affecting Gauteng schools within the first term. "It hurts me so much that within the first term of the academic year, if you include Hoërskool Driehoek and include all the incidents that have happened at our schools, learners that are committing suicide and others that are attacked, it is becoming heavy on us almost daily," Lesufi said. Lesufi said the department was of the view that systems needed to be reviewed to avoid situations that were "uncontrollable". "We need to review everything. We must not leave any stone unturned. "We need a complete overhaul and a complete review so that we can strengthen all the regulations and laws that we have to deal with this thing," Lesufi said. WATCH: Paarl Boys' students appear to support staffers accused of using corporal punishment Being hit against the head for not greeting. The "five-star treatment" on your back when your homework isn't done. Spanking with a cricket bat - all in the name of "discipline". WATCH: Grief, anger as Durban community mourns teenagers killed by taxi Grief-stricken Newlands East residents became enraged on Wednesday after a minibus taxi ran into four secondary school pupils in Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, killing three. WATCH: Support for Sans Souci teacher following court appearance The teacher charged with the assault of a Sans Souci Girls High School pupil, as well as the teenager she slapped, made their first appearances in the Wynberg Magistrate's Court on Wednesday. Sans Souci Girls' High School 'n Video waarop leerlinge van die Sans Souci Girls' High School die onderwyseres Clarissa Venter, wat Dinsdag een van hul medeleerlinge geklap het, ondersteun, het Donderdag op sosiale media versprei. WATCH: Holy Cross primary in Cape Town on fire Firefighters were called out to Holy Cross RC Primary School in the Cape Town CBD after plumes of smoke were seen emanating from the premises. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. WATCH: Hundreds gather for emotional night vigil at Hoërskool Driehoek Hundreds of people gathered at Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark for an emotional night vigil, after a concrete slab collapsed at the school, killing three children and seriously injuring 25 others. WATCH: SA Human Rights Commission reacts to the Hoërskool Driehoek tragedy The SA Human Rights Commission will launch a probe into a walkway collapse at a high school in Vanderbijlpark, that killed four children last week. WATCH: Khayelitsha school bids to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place Chairperson of Enkanini Primary's School Governing Body Andile Lili shows what the school is doing in a bid to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place at the school in Khayelitsha WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral. WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.