Jenni Evans iStock Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The City of Tshwane is the latest to be hit by a water crisis as it appealed to residents of more than 10 suburbs on Saturday to use water sparingly as it fixes a leak. "As a result of a leak on the Rand Water Klipfontein system, the water utility, Rand Water, will reduce water supply to some reservoirs in Tshwane by 50%," said a statement. "It is against this backdrop that the City of Tshwane's bulk water unit has to restrict the outflow of water from identified reservoirs that receive water through the Klipfontein system." Suburbs affected are: Mnandi, Rooihuiskraal, The Reeds, Bakenkop, Sunderland Ridge, Raslouw, Erasmia, Valhalla, Loulardia, Laudium, Atteridgeville, Suiderberg, Clifton, Brakfontein, Hercules. Residents should use water sparingly for the next 48 hours to avoid water shortages. Water Supply Update on #Mnandi, #Rooihuiskraal, #TheReeds, #Bakenkop, #SunderlandRidge, #Raslouw, #Erasmia, #Valhalla, #Loulardia, #Laudium, #Atteridgeville, #Suiderberg, #Clifton, #Brakfontein #HerculesWest pic.twitter.com/PIiC3HNhEY This comes as several towns and municipalities deal with water crises linked to droughts or infrastructure problems. The Sarah Baartman District Municipality in the Eastern Cape, which includes drought-stricken Makhanda (formerly Grahamstown), was declared a local state of disaster last week. Tshwane is also dealing with an electricity sub-station problem in Wapadrand. Olympus #powerupdate: Please note that system operators have been dispatched to investigate a possible circuit breaker that tripped at the Wapadrand substation.    WATCH: Bakkie goes swimming while trying to pull boat out of the water in Cape Town A man who was pulling a boat out of the water at the Oceana Power Boat Club in Granger Bay, Cape Town, got more than he bargained for at the weekend when his vehicle also had to be towed out of the water. WATCH Hundreds of flamingo chicks admitted to SANCCOB for life-saving rehabilitation Over 2 000 abandoned and distressed flamingo chicks were jetted all over South Africa this week as part of a series of mercy flights from Kimberley after their habitat came under threat due to water problems. Where to find the world's most crystal-clear water paradise spots Love island life? Here's where to find the world's bluest, blue waters. WATCH: Pensioner's home on verge of collapse after municipal roadworks When Dora Mamba bought her three-bedroom house in Hospital View in 1990, she rejoiced at accomplishing her lifelong dream of being a homeowner.
Twenty-three years later, her pride and joy began to crumble. WATCH: New toilet uses 2 litres of water instead of the average 11 litres A new toilet that uses only 2 litres of water instead of the average 11 litres could be a new fixture in South African homes. WATCH: 'We have nothing' - Vredenburg residents demand better service delivery On Tuesday, residents of Vredenburg in the Western Cape – who have had enough of living in what they described as a "dump" – took to the streets with sjamboks, sticks and knobkieries to demand better service delivery. WATCH: City Power suspects "deliberate acts of sabotage" at South African substation Johannesburg City Power says they suspect that the cause of the explosion at the Rand Water Eikenhof Pumping Station was a "result of a deliberate act of sabotage". PODCAST: Zuma's nine lost years? Ramaphosa shouldn't forget — he was there AUDIO: 2019 is off to a flying start, from Bosasa and the endless inquiries to Solly Msimanga stepping down as Tshwane mayor and electioneering getting into full swing.

This week on POLOTIKI, we discuss former president Jacob Zuma's legacy. WATCH: Tshwane mayor visits Pretoria train crash victims' families Tshwane Metro Mayor, Solly Msimanga, visited two families of the deceased from last week's Mountain View train accident.
Msimanga expressed his condolences and offered support with the funeral arrangements. WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: Anti-racism protest shuts down Bronkhorstspruit During a protest against racism in Bronkhorstspruit on Tuesday, where the entire central business district of the small town was shut down, the ANC Youth League in Tshwane have made a call expropriate land belonging to racist farmers.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.