Selene Brophy Comair has decided to remove its 737 MAX from its flight schedule. The airline said neither regulatory authorities nor the manufacturer has required it to do so. The plane was in service for British Airways flights between Cape Town, Johannesburg and Durban. The airline came under fire, after three other international airlines removed the contentious plane model from service following the fatal crash of the Ethiopian Airlines flight on Sunday.  Boeing's newest plane, the 737-8 Max  jet, is under scrutiny for safety concerns after another incident less than six months ago with the same model. Ethiopia, Indonesia and China have all suspended its 8 Max fleets. China's Aviation Authority grounded all Boeing 737 Max 8 planes used by domestic airlines. China orders its airlines to ground Boeing 737 MAX 8 jets China's aviation regulator said on Monday it had ordered Chinese airlines to suspend their Boeing Co 737 MAX aircraft operations following a deadly crash of one of the planes in Ethiopia the day before. The South African Civil Aviation Authority welcomed Comair's "self-grounding" on Monday evening, calling the decision commendable as the airline "puts the concerns, interests, and safety of its passengers and crew first". Wrenelle Stander, executive director of Comair’s airline division, said, "While Comair has done extensive preparatory work prior to the introduction of the first 737-8 Max into its fleet and remains confident in the inherent safety of the aircraft, it has decided temporarily not to schedule the aircraft while it consults with other operators, Boeing and technical experts." “The safety and confidence of our customers and crew is always our priority,” Stander said. The regulator said it would continue to monitor the situation and engage all stakeholders, including the operator and the manufacturer on this matter. READ: Ethiopian Boeing 737-8 Max crash: What is 'unstable vertical speed' Boeing has confirmed there are about 330 of the 737-8 Max planes in operation globally, with Comair and Air Mauritania being the only two African airlines, besides Ethiopian who have the Max as part of its fleet. Black box found Investigators have not determined the cause but have since found the flight data recorder and the cockpit voice recorder. Accident Bulletin no. 6 Issued on March 11, 2019 at 01:40 PM Local TimeThe Digital Flight Data Recorder(DFDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder(CVR) of ET302 have been Recovered. The incident is similar to the case of the Indonesian Lion Air flight, in which pilots wrestled with the plane's "faulty sensor and automatic feature sent its nose pointing down while the pilots struggled to lift the plane up". The similarities are that both were new Boeing 737-8 Max airplanes and the incidents occurred in the take-off phase. Both cockpit crew had requested permission to return to the airport shortly after take-off. The company’s chief executive, Tewolde Gebremariam, said Sunday there were six planes in the fleet and initially the decision had been not to suspend them. The airline has however done so as an extra precautionary measure.  Several Boeing Max 8 planes grounded after crash Aviation authorities in China, Indonesia and Ethiopia have ordered airlines to ground their Boeing 737 Max 8 planes the day after one crashed in Ethiopia, killing all 157 people on board. Investigators examine Ethiopian Airlines black boxes after crash Ethiopian investigators examine the black boxes recovered from an Ethiopian Airlines jet that crashed outside Addis Ababa, killing all 157 people on board. Ethiopia crash probe begins as Boeing shares slide Two 'black box' recorders have been recovered from the site of an Ethiopian Airlines passenger jet that crashed after take-off on Sunday, killing all 157 people on board. Boeing shares slid 9 percent on Monday and a minute's silence was held at a UN Father pays tribute to daughter killed in Ethiopian crash Father pays tribute to daughter killed in Ethiopian crash Ethiopian Airlines grounds Boeing planes in Kenya A spokesman for Ethiopian Airlines said on Monday that the company has grounded all of its Boeing 737 Max 8 aircraft, after one of the planes crashed, killing all 157 people on board. Black box flight recorders Videographic on black box voice and data recorders. Ethiopian Airlines said on Monday it had grounded its Boeing 737 MAX 8 fleet after a crash that killed 149 passengers and eight crew. Search operation underway at Ethiopia plane crash site A search operation is underway at the crash site of the Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 near Bishoftu, a town some 60 kilometres southeast of Addis Ababa. The aircraft crashed minutes after an early-morning takeoff, killing all eight crew and 149 pa... Ethiopian Airlines Boeing jet crashes, killing 157 An Ethiopian Airlines Boeing 737 passenger jet to Nairobi crashed early on Sunday, killing all 149 passengers and eight crew members on board. It was the same model as the Indonesia crash in October which killed 189. Mia Womersley reports 157 killed in Ethiopian Airlines crash A jetliner carrying 157 people crashed shortly after takeoff from the Ethiopian capital Sunday, killing everyone aboard, authorities said. At least 35 nationalities were among the dead.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.