Riaan Grobler Photo: Getty Images/Gallo Images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 45-year-old man from Mfula village, Willowvale, has been arrested for the murder of his younger brother, 40, after allegedly mistaking him for a car thief. According to Eastern Cape police spokesperson Captain Jackson Manatha, the man arrived at his home in the village around 01:30 on Sunday. "The suspect heard some noise outside the house and saw a person between the cars. "He drew his licensed firearm and shot at the person. The man who was between the cars was hit on his upper body and passed away at the scene. The suspect went to check the person and discovered that it was his younger brother," Manatha said. Read: Case of father who 'accidentally' shot son dead to go to the High Court Manatha told News24 that the alleged shooter thought that there was a crime in progress and shot at whom he believed to be an intruder or car thief. "The murder was reported to the police and the suspect was arrested. "The firearm was also recovered from the suspect." According to Manatha, the suspect is due to appear in the Willowvale Magistrate's Court on Tuesday on a murder charge. The identity of the deceased is being withheld as some of his relatives have not yet been informed of the murder. "What happened here is very unfortunate," Manatha told News24. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Three accused of murdering Mihalik appear in court The three men accused of Pete Mihalik's murder - Vuyile Maliti, Sinozokohle Biyela and Nkosinathi Khumalo - appear in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Friday 15 February 2019. WATCH: Residents cry for help as man shot dead in Durban road A 32-year-old male suspect will appear in court on a charge of murder on Tuesday after a video shows Chatsworth community members crowding around a dead body in the street. WATCH: Hijacker shoots man in Welkom driveway An elderly man is recovering in hospital after being shot during a hijacking in Welkom, Free State on Friday. WATCH: Joburg security guard wounded in shootout with armed robbery suspects A security guard was shot and wounded as he investigated a suspected business robbery on the corner of Prichard and Mooi Streets in Johannesburg last Saturday afternoon. WATCH: Shooting at KZN court - two confirmed dead At least two people have been shot and killed at the Durban Magistrate's Court. WATCH: Would-be robber shot dead outside Limpopo mall A would-be bag thief was shot and killed in the parking lot of a Polokwane mall; this after the owner of the bag gave chase, pointed a firearm at the assailant and pulled the trigger. WATCH: 1 dead, 1 injured in Valhalla Park gang-related shooting One person was shot dead and another injured in a gang-related shooting in Valhalla Park, Cape Town, on Thursday morning. WATCH: Man shot dead in car in Welkom mall parking lot A 54-year-old man was shot at close range while sitting in his car outside a shopping centre in Welkom on Saturday, police said on Sunday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.