Jenna Etheridge Max Thabiso Edkins (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories German-South African citizen Max Thabiso Edkins, who died in an Ethiopian Airlines plane crash, has been remembered for his passion for the environment and fighting climate change. The 35-year-old worked as a Communications Officer for Connect4Climate. He had been flying to the UN Environment Assembly in Nairobi, Kenya, when tragedy struck around six minutes into the flight from Addis Ababa on Sunday. There were 157 people who died. The World Bank Group was shocked that they had lost Edkins as a staff member. Airlines continue to fly Boeing 737 Max 8 to UK airports despite Ethiopia crash Several airlines serving UK airports are continuing to fly the aircraft model involved in a deadly crash in Ethiopia, despite it being grounded in several countries. WATCH: Heartbreaking scenes as Ethiopian Airlines staff honours crash plane crew "We were devastated to learn that we lost a cherished colleague in the plane crash in Ethiopia," said interim World Bank Group president Kristalina Georgieva. "Max was deeply committed to the fight against climate change and brought tremendous creativity, energy and passion to his work. Our deepest sympathies go to his family and loved ones, and to those of the other victims of this tragedy." When his father Don Edkins heard about the plane crash, he had apparently hoped and prayed that his son was not affected. He told TimesLive: "He was there, always, in the most important places, giving out the message that the environment and climate is where we have to do something for the future of our children and I think he would want that to be known for his children and for everybody else's children." He leaves behind his wife Astrid, his young son, brother and parents.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.