Kaveel Singh Patricia de Lille on her lowest time in her politics career The past 18 months have seen battle royal in the DA in Cape Town, which reached a turning point when Patricia de Lille resigned as mayor and DA member amid a criminal investigation against her. Good party leader Patricia de Lille. (Jan Gerber/News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Good party leader Patricia De Lille has served the Democratic Alliance (DA) leadership with a lawyer's letter, demanding that it remove a paragraph from its call centre canvassing script that allegedly defames her. In the letter to top tier DA national leadership, served on Thursday, De Lille says that the 2019 general elections canvassing script unlawfully implicates her in wrongdoing. She took exception to a portion of the script which apparently contained calls for "Standard Responses to be used". Also read: De Lille lays fraud, defamation charges against senior DA members WATCH: De Lille takes aim at 'rudderless' DA as she announces resignation On Wednesday 31 October, Cape Town Mayor announced her resignation. When canvassers are asked about infighting and De Lille, canvassers are allegedly asked to respond: "We fired Patricia de Lille because she was involved in all sorts of wrongdoing in the City of Cape Town. The DA doesn't allow corruption and will take action against anyone, even our own members". De Lille alleged the script suggested that call centre personnel say she was fired and guilty of wrongdoing. "The statement is untrue and provided to the call centre personnel solely to bring our [client] into disrepute," her lawyer's letter to the DA read. Here is my lawyers letter to the DA for their defamatory statements against me during their election campaign. pic.twitter.com/Y9upwsEAiN  Her lawyers further state that De Lille was not fired by the DA. Read more: De Lille: DA like Animal Farm - some are more equal than others "It is true that the DA attempted to dismiss her, by reason of a statement she had made expressing her intent to resign at a future date. The attempt was declared unlawful in the Western Cape High Court. "Moreover, not a shred of evidence exists that Ms de Lille has been guilty of any wrongdoing and certainly not any corruption. The publication of the untrue defamatory statements concerning our client is unlawful." DA spokesperson Solly Malatsi's only response was that the lawyer's letter from De Lille was with their legal team, who would "respond in due course". WATCH: Patricia de Lille talks about her future and her journey as Cape Town mayor Her battle with the DA was like an abusive relationship, Patricia de Lille says. And the best decision when caught in such a situation is to walk away, "because it's not going to change". 'It's time for a new political order' - De Lille announces new political party Former Cape Town mayor and DA member Patricia de Lille says she is ready to serve her country under a new political movement. WATCH: Dan Plato elected as Cape Town mayor Dan Plato has been elected as Cape Town's new executive mayor during a special council sitting on Tuesday. WATCH: Democratic Alliance councillor Brett Herron resigns DA City of Cape Town MMC for Transport and Housing Brett Herron has resigned with immediate effect. Herron said that the DA is ignoring its manifesto to provide affordable housing and integration. WATCH: Damage to 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard a criminal act – DA The DA has called the damage inflicted on its newly unveiled 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, a 'criminal act'. WATCH: 'ANC is killing us' - DA unveils billboard listing names of Marikana, Life Esidimeni victims DA leaders and supporters marched on Wednesday to unveil a new giant billboard in Johannesburg. WATCH: DA leader Mmusi Maimane talks Solly Msimanga's future in the DA Although DA leader Mmusi Maimane refuses to commit to a number, when it comes to the party's ambitions ahead of the general elections next year, he makes it clear he has his eyes set on Gauteng.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.