Herman Mashaba Multi-coloured lighting on Nelson Mandela Bridge in Johannesburg city. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Dear fellow mayors In 2017 the City of
Johannesburg launched a monthly volunteer clean-up campaign called A Re
Sebetseng. The idea behind A Re Sebetseng – SeSotho for 'let us work'
– was to encourage residents of Johannesburg to take ownership of their
environment, and contribute their time toward improving the cleanliness of
their communities. The inspiration behind A Re
Sebetseng was the example set by Rwanda, and their monthly country-wide
clean-up campaign known as Umuganda. I experienced the power of this
campaign first-hand on a visit to Kigali some years ago. I was astonished by
how clean and well maintained the city was. Moreover, I was impressed when I
learned that this was not simply a function of dedicated clean-up crews, but
the product of a nation-wide communal effort held on the last Saturday of each
month. The Umuganda initiative
has been greatly successful with Kigali widely lauded as the cleanest city in
Africa. The programme has also been instrumental in Rwanda's success in
building a socially cohesive country from their difficult past, and achieving
an economic growth rate of over 7% with unemployment at just 15%. When I was elected as the mayor
of the City of Johannesburg, it was these very attributes of Kigali that I
wanted to bring to my city – and out of that desire A Re Sebetseng was
born. Since its inception, A Re
Sebetseng has seen thousands of events attended by community members
resulting in the collection of over 250 000 tons of waste. The campaign has
evolved over time and today comprises more than just monthly clean-ups, but
extends into environmental education and broader service delivery drives.
Underlying all of these initiatives remains the fundamental goal of encouraging
our residents to take ownership of their surroundings and work together to
improve the city they call home. It is in this spirit of
co-operation that I am writing to you and extending a formal invitation to your
municipality to consider joining the A Re Sebetseng campaign. While
I take pride in what we have accomplished through the City's efforts over the
past 18 months, I believe that the A Re Sebetseng campaign should not be
an exclusive initiative of the City of Johannesburg. I would
therefore like to take this opportunity to invite you to join me in a clean-up
effort in Soweto to give you the opportunity to experience A Re Sebetseng, and
witness first-hand the impact it could have across our collective
municipalities. Indeed, the power of this campaign lies in transcending the borders of any one municipality and extending its reach across the province in the interest of the greater Gauteng community. I look forward
to your response. Kind regards, Cllr Herman
Mashaba Executive mayor, City of Johannesburg   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.