Sesona Ngqakamba Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The City of Johannesburg has dismissed a City Power project manager who has allegedly been implicated in corruption involving R44m at the Hopefield substation. The employee was dismissed on Friday after he was found guilty of misconduct and of colluding with contractors by granting payment for work that had not been carried out, MMC for environment and infrastructure Nico de Jager said. De Jager said the employee was suspended when City Power initiated an investigation into his involvement in the awarding of the tender. He was found guilty of gross negligence in his duties which resulted in financial loss to the City. ALSO READ: I am not corrupt, says axed City Power managing director "The contractor involved was awarded a tender of R44m to manage and conduct repairs at the Hopefield substation. "The same contractor, Setheo Engineering, also received R66m to upgrade the Eldorado Park substation. But work was never done," De Jager said in a statement. De Jager added that two directors of Setheo Engineering were arrested in 2017 for colluding with City Power officials and receiving payments exceeding R66m for work that was never completed in the building of the Eldorado Park substation. "They had secured the contract, issued under the previous administration, through fraudulent bank guarantees which led the City to believe they had the balance sheet to handle the project," he added. The NPA decided to withdraw the case against the directors, De Jager said. The City has encouraged people to report any fraud and corruption to its 24-hour hotline on 0800 002 587 or to visit its offices. The circumstances are dire in SA but we can't lose hope - Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) leader prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi says corruption has become endemic in South Africa.  He added that people must do as much as they can to expose the corrupt politicians. WATCH: 'Give me a tender' - sings satirical 'Elvis' on Bosasa scandal The much-talked about Bosasa scandal has gripped South Africa over the past week since former chief-operating officer Angelo Agrizzi blew the whistle on bribery and corruption. 'This is a well orchestrated campaign to vilify my name' - Gigaba on leaked Eskom report Parliament's committee on public enterprises is now part of a campaign aimed at destroying Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba. 'Our rail system has gone to the dogs' - DA protests at Prasa offices The Democratic Alliance held a picket outside the offices of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA) in Hatfield, Pretoria on Wednesday. WATCH: City Power suspects "deliberate acts of sabotage" at South African substation Johannesburg City Power says they suspect that the cause of the explosion at the Rand Water Eikenhof Pumping Station was a "result of a deliberate act of sabotage". WATCH: Site conditions 'really bad' as Medupi spews ash Clouds of ash could be seen above the Medupi plant in Limpopo on Thursday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.