Riaan Grobler (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A sports coach who stands accused of sexually harassing three learners at Bryanston High School in Johannesburg has been fired. The school governing body (SGB) said in a statement on Friday that a disciplinary panel of three presiding officers had found the coach guilty on all counts covering sexual harassment and financial mismanagement. "As a result, the staff member has been dismissed with immediate effect," SGB chairperson Aidan Hillebrand said. "The Bryanston High School SGB would like to commend the impacted learners for having the courage and determination to come forward and testify. "A big thank you to our legal team and the panel for their commitment in ensuring this matter was dealt with a quickly as possible," Hillebrand said. The SGB urged all school governing bodies to deal with these types of issues expeditiously and with the learners' best interests in mind. "The protection of learners should always take priority over the reputation of any institution." The SGB requested that the media and general public continue to respect the anonymity of the affected learners. The 33-year-old Bryanston High School employee was arrested in January and appeared in the Alexandra Regional Court, Sandton police confirmed. The alleged incidents of sexual assault were said to have taken place throughout 2017 and 2018, during netball matches and on school outings. A parent of one of the complainants confirmed this to News24. The man will appear in court again on March 12. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Support for Sans Souci teacher following court appearance The teacher charged with the assault of a Sans Souci Girls High School pupil, as well as the teenager she slapped, made their first appearances in the Wynberg Magistrate's Court on Wednesday. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. WATCH: SA Human Rights Commission reacts to the Hoërskool Driehoek tragedy The SA Human Rights Commission will launch a probe into a walkway collapse at a high school in Vanderbijlpark, that killed four children last week. WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg. SA's top matriculant missed half the school year due to a rare disease After missing almost six months of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker managed to nab the coveted spot of SA's best matriculant. Teacher recalls shooting victim Reese Fallon as friendly, kind A Grade 12 teacher of Toronto shooting victim Reese Fallon says he remembers the 18-year-old as "witty" and a leader at school. Fallon, who graduated from Malvern Collegiate last month, was killed in the Sunday attack. Teens on how social media could affect well-being of students The Toronto District School Board says social media use is one area of concern as new data indicates a decline in students’ well-being. One high schooler says turning off phone notifications is one way he maintains “balance.”   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.