Kamva Somdyala Lions (Netwerk24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The search for the male lion that escaped from the Karoo National Park in Beaufort West has taken rangers and trackers as far as Sutherland in the Northern Cape. Search and tracker teams have been trying to locate the animal in difficult terrain for weeks since it escaped on February 15. On Monday, SANParks said "the last confirmed spoor of the missing lion was followed by rangers and trackers [on Sunday] to about 42km north of the town of Sutherland in the Northern Cape". The town is about 200km from Beaufort West. The Bidvest Protea Coin team, which joined up with the search party on Friday to offer assistance, put their infrared technology to work at night in an attempt to get closer to the animal. But they have not had any luck over the past three nights. Later, the search stepped up a gear when Bidvest Protea Coin announced that it was deploying a helicopter, which is suitable for tracking. "We have one of only two choppers in the country fitted with forward-looking infrared (FLIR), or thermal imaging infrared cameras, which allows us to pick up heat signatures on the ground over a radius of 10km when flying at night," said company chief operations officer Waal de Waal. The Bidvest team also included a tracker who joined the team on the ground. Reynold "Rey T" Thakhuli, SANParks general manager for media, PR and stakeholder relations previously told News24 that the plan was to capture rather than kill the lion, despite the risk it posed to the tracking team. "We are going dart it. They (the team) have the necessary equipment. If it's too deep in the difficult terrain, we'll close it up and call the helicopter which is on standby." Czech man attacked and killed by lion he kept as pet A Czech man was mauled to death by a lion he illegally kept as a pet. Two lions collide in epic impala-hunting fail In the history of the animal kingdom, there is an idea that only the lionesses hunt. This isn't so true. Giraffe gives lion a piggy-back ride Africa's version of Uber? Buffalo attempts to rescue baby elephant from lion's mouth In a rare show of bravery, a herd of buffalo tried to save a baby elephant from a pride of hungry lions. The video shows the lions on top of the upturned calf, trying to kill it. A herd of buffalo from a nearby watering hole heard the commotion. Awkward! Three male lions take turns mating with lioness This lioness's milkshake brought all the boy lions to the yard. This is a video of a lioness having a mating party with three male lions - each taking turns and bumping the other away in an almost playful manner. Mongoose refuses to be lion cubs' chew toy While the young lions seem to be enjoying themselves, the mongoose is not having too much fun. Kruger Gold As Buck Runs Into Lions We often see lions working hard for its next meal, but in a video shared by Latest Sightings, getting dinner couldn't be easier for a pride of lions that had a buck run right into them. Thermal imaging tech used for zoo animal house heating system An innovative system using thermal imaging cameras to control indoor heating for zoo animals has been developed to cut energy bills and carbon emissions. Newborn baby rescued from storm drain in SAfrica Rescue workers in South Africa pulled a newborn baby from a storm drain in a four-hour operation that ended with applause and cheers from onlookers.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.