James de Villiers Sergeant Stephen Adams, Colonel Deon Beneke and sergeant Marlon Appolis (James de Villiers, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories "There will always be two high-profile murders in Stellenbosch a year," sergeant Stephen Adams, 42, says as he leans forward. "At least two per year: [One in the] first six months and [one in the] last six months." Brief silence follows as he contemplates the statement he's just made before he continues: "We still believe it." Standing up, Adams walks past Colonel Deon Beneke, 45, the acting station commander of the Stellenbosch police cluster, towards Sergeant Marlon Appolis, 41, where he takes a cigarette. "All of us, we have that [belief]," Adams adds as he lights the cigarette. Beneke remains silent, before Appolis, sitting next to him, adds: "It is like a spell that's over Stellenbosch." In an interview with News24 in Beneke's backyard in Wellington - roughly 30 minutes from Stellenbosch - the three detectives explained how they were able to successfully solve four high-profile murder cases in the area: the Van Breda family of De Zalze Estate, Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius, guest house owner Marie Verwey and, most recently, Susan Rohde - the wife of property mogul Jason Rohde.  Adams testifying during a trial at the Western Cape High Court. (Jaco Marais/Foto24/Gallo Images/Getty Images) The murders, at least one every year since 2015, captured the public's attention as gruesome details were revealed in the Western Cape High Court over the course of a few months. In July 2018, the court sentenced Henri van Breda (23) to three life sentences for using an axe to murder his mother, father, and brother at the estate in 2015. The motive for the murder is still unknown. Months later, in November, three men were sent to jail for the murder of Hannah Cornelius aged 21, whose bare body was found in May 2017 at Groenhof farm, roughly 20 minutes outside of Stellenbosch, where she had been raped and stabbed. In February, Marie Verwey's caregiver and three accomplices were sent to jail for stabbing the 81-year-old 61 times while she was in her wheelchair in Paradyskloof, Stellenbosch, in February 2017. And two weeks later, Jason Rhode (49) was sentenced to 20 years in prison for strangling and smothering his wife of 22 years, Susan Rohde (47) to death in a hotel just outside Stellenbosch in July 2016.  As he puffs on his cigarette, Adams says they are still anticipating the next high-profile case to reach their desk this year. Jeffrey Zetler, 62, the owner of much beloved Stellenbosch strawberry farm stall, Mooiberge, was stabbed to death on his wife's birthday in June, 2018. "If it's a new year we would say: 'Okay, the first one for 2019 must still come,'" Adams says. "When or where we don't know."  Beneke, Adams and Appolis with the Henri van Breda prosecuting team (Twitter, @SAPoliceService) The key to catching a murder, Appolis says, is to join the dots and find where they made mistakes. "You never find the perfect murder." The detectives - who have more than 50 years of combined experience in the police service - say they feel vindicated after successfully solving the murders. The Western Cape police commissioner recently thanked them personally for their commitment to the South African Police Service (SAPS). Beneke, originally from rural Robertson in the Boland, said when he arrived at the Stellenbosch police station in 2014, there was a commonly-held belief that the station was unable to solve high-profile murders. "We [were] labelled, 'Stellenbosch you are going to mess up [Henri's] case again,' because wherever you go they would say another Inge Lotz." He was referring to Lotz, a 22-year-old Masters student who was found dead in her apartment in Welgevonden, Stellenbosch, in March 2005. She had been stabbed in the chest. Her boyfriend, Fred van der Vyver, was arrested for her murder, but found not guilty when it was revealed in court that police fabricated evidence against him. Adams, Appolis and Beneke were not at the Stellenbosch police station during that time. "Now they [are] going to think twice before they say Inge Lotz again because we've proven them wrong," Appolis says. Near the end of the interview, Adams, who mostly remained silent during the conversation - occasionally making remarks about whatever his colleagues said - said he believes detectives have a sixth sense for smelling out murders. "Wherever your sense leads you, you follow your sense." As an example, he referred to "Tannie Verwey" who was killed by her caregiver. He said there were no leads at the scene, but that they joined the dots when they discovered a vehicle - which had been spotted on CCTV footage in front of Verwey's home at the time of her murder - parked in front of the caregiver's home . "Three o'clock the morning we decided, let's go to Paarl (to the caregiver's house) now, and the case was cracked open. Three o'clock that morning without any leads; nothing."  Adams and Appolis outside the Western Cape High court (Twitter, @SAPoliceService) All three mentioned that the adrenaline and a sense of justice kept them coming back to the police. During an investigation they would easily work up to 24 hours a day, they said. "We never switch off." Beneke, who was their commanding officer during the investigations, said Adams or Appolis could expect a call any time of the day - even at night. "If I want something to be done, you can ask them. I don't take no or a promise for an answer." Appolis, who is raising a 5-year-old girl, says he is often angered by the lies killers tell in court and that he fears for the safety of his child but remains committed to the police. "For me, it's just about giving answers to a family, helping them to get closure to what happened. [I am] not much worried about the media business." Before excusing himself to drive to a family gathering in Stellenbosch ahead of Springbok rugby match, Adams adds that he joined the police service at the time when many of his friends joined. "[But] now it's my calling," Adams says as he walks away. His bakkie drives off into the Cape countryside where the next Stellenbosch killer could be roaming the streets. "When or where we don't know." WATCH: Courtney Pieters' killer gets two life sentences for her rape, murder The Western Cape High Court has sentenced Mortimer Saunders to two life sentences for the rape and murder of 3-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH LIVE: Jason Rohde sentencing procedures get underway Convicted murderer Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings will get underway in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday December 5. WATCH: Life sentences for Hannah Cornelius' murderers The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. WATCH: Three accused of murdering Mihalik appear in court The three men accused of Pete Mihalik's murder - Vuyile Maliti, Sinozokohle Biyela and Nkosinathi Khumalo - appear in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Friday 15 February 2019. We would like to win that land in Stellenbosch because it belongs to us - 'Azania' residents Application for an eviction order by the owner of a plot of private land that people are building shacks on in Stellenbosch was postponed to the 29th of August today WATCH: Closing arguments in Rohde trial - was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband Jason violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? #ReleaseMartha: Son of murdered husband threatens to take matters into own hands Relatives of Martha Marumo's deceased husband say if she receives a presidential pardon for the murder of Clitus Marumo, "something is going to happen". WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? 78,000 x 550? This boy knows the answer Sibahle Zwane is only 10, but his maths skills have made him an internet sensation in South Africa. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Who should own South Africa's land? Plans to redistribute land from white farmers to landless blacks are raising deep feelings. Here's why. Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. South Africa pledges $4.9 bln Eskom bailout South Africa will give state power utility Eskom 69 billion rand ($4.9 billion) over three years, Finance Minister Tito Mboweni said while delivering the key part of the country's budget on Wednesday. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Newborn baby girl pulled out of South African storm drain Emergency services were called after cries were heard coming from the drain in Newlands East, near Durban in South Africa. Following a three-hour rescue operation, police are now investigating how the baby got there in the first place. Eleven taxi drivers shot dead in South Africa Gunmen shot dead 11 taxi drivers returning to Johannesburg from the funeral of a colleague in Kwa-Zulu Natal. Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine. Mass powercuts in South Africa, sabotage denied South Africa has suffered a third day of powercuts caused by major problems at the main energy supplier Eskom. The government has only recently announced plans to split the company up. South Africa: Muti - a threat to nature In order to meet the huge demand for the traditional remedies known as 'muti', plants in South Africa are being harvested on a scale that is no longer sustainable. The pepper-bark tree, for example, is widely used, even though it is endangered. South Africa's venomous and most dangerous spiders Do you know how to spot a potentially dangerous spider? Learn about South Africa's venomous spiders and how to protect your family. 8 Incredible hikes in SA that will clear the mind South Africa is blessed with some of the best hiking trails in the world, but here's just a few to get you started on planning your next trek through nature. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH: Brother of slain Durban businessman says they will not accept an apology "We won't accept an apology from a hitman," said the family of a Durban businessman whose murder was caught on camera in August.

Kidesh Ramjettan was killed execution style in August in a hit at his petrol station in Rossburgh, south of Durban.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.