Kamva Somdyala Police are investigating the death of the crew member. (Photo: Pexels, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Four suspected hijackers have been arrested following a shootout with KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) police on Thursday night in Greenwood Park, Durban. "The Durban Flying Squad were conducting crime prevention duties in the Greenwood Park area when they received a positive tracker for a hijacked vehicle. Police officers responded and spotted the vehicle," said KZN police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane. According to Zwane, when police attempted to stop the vehicle, but it the sped off. They gave chase and a shootout ensued. One man sustained a gunshot wound to his leg and three people were nabbed unharmed. WATCH- Durban metro police officer among 3 dead in CBD shooting A metro police officer is among three people who were killed in a shooting near the KwaZulu-Natal High Court in Durban on Monday morning. Those who were arrested (aged between 20 and 22) were charged with the possession of suspected stolen property, attempted murder and the illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition. They are expected to appear in the Verulam Magistrate's Court next week. Cloning At the same time, KZN police seized 50 vehicles during a three-week operation in the province targeting vehicle licence cloning. "The operation was held for the better part of the month of February and focused on… syndicates that steal and hijack vehicles with the intention of altering their identification numbers and selling them on the black market to those willing to purchase such vehicles," said Zwane. Swoops were conducted in eThekwini, Port Shepstone, Pietermaritzburg and Empangeni. Most of the recovered vehicles had been stolen in eThekwini. "These operations are ongoing and we can expect more arrest and recoveries," added Zwane. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Police arrest KZN man who threatened to blow up office workers Police have arrested a KwaZulu-Natal man who threatened to blow up office workers with a bomb. WATCH: Burning tyres, logs and truck light up Howick sky KwaZulu-Natal police say the violent protest that forced the closure of the N3 in the vicinity of Howick in KZN Midlands on Thursday night was sparked by the arrest of community members who had allegedly invaded a private property in the area. WATCH: Thieves ambush and rob sleeping truck driver A video of a truck driver valiantly fighting off a suspected robber who broke into his truck while he was sleeping inside has surfaced on social media. WATCH: Two of these KZN home invaders were killed by police Two suspects from the notorious "Mercedes Gang" were killed in a shoot-out with police while robbing a home in Durban North on Tuesday. WATCH: Shooting at KZN court - two confirmed dead At least two people have been shot and killed at the Durban Magistrate's Court. WATCH: Four bus crashes in one day leave 150 injured, two dead in KZN Helicopter footage of a bus that crashed into a home in Tongaat, KwaZulu-Natal has emerged online.

According to the KZN emergency medical services, over 150 people suffered serious to moderate injuries in three other incidents in the province. 3 Days to Go: Johannesburg Premiere The 3 Days to Go Johannesburg premiere took place at Ster-Kinekor, Sandton City and audiences couldn't get enough of the stars on the red carpet. WATCH: Dead sailor found on yacht washed ashore in KZN A dead sailor, found aboard a yacht that washed ashore at a beach in Southbroom on the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast on Saturday, has been identified, provincial police have confirmed. WATCH: Ramaphosa handing over 4 586 hectares of land to a KZN community President Cyril Ramaphosa handed over more than 4000 hectares of land to the KwaMkhwanazi community in Empangeni, northern KwaZulu-Natal on Sunday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.