Alex Mitchley Minibus taxis park at a rank in Sandton. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Mamelodi taxi boss, who has allegedly been terrorising the community by extorting and intimidating spaza shops and taxi drivers, is expected to appear in the Pretoria Magistrate's Court on Thursday. The taxi boss, who cannot be named until he appears in court, was arrested on Tuesday evening after he handed himself over to police. According to national police spokesperson, Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo, a warrant for his arrest was obtained on Monday at the Mamelodi East police station for charges relating to extortion, intimidation and assault. Two of the taxi boss's alleged closest associates and four other men linked to him were arrested by in a sting operation on Friday and Saturday. The two alleged associates, who have been charged with extortion and intimidation, have already appeared in court. READ: Mamelodi taxi boss arrested The four other men have been charged with the possession of illegal firearms and the contravention of the Private Security Industry Regulation Act. They appeared in court on Monday. Coincidentally, News24 interviewed one of the men arrested on Friday morning who denied the allegations. He said at the time that not a single docket had been opened against the taxi boss at the Mamelodi West and East police stations. "I spoke to the head of detectives at the Mamelodi East police station. I wanted to know whether there was any pending case of docket that Mr [taxi boss] needed to answer to and the reply was no," he said. The suspect inferred that the allegations were fuelled by disagreements with rival taxi owners in Mamelodi, aimed at discrediting the taxi boss in question. WATCH: Grief, anger as Durban community mourns teenagers killed by taxi Grief-stricken Newlands East residents became enraged on Wednesday after a minibus taxi ran into four secondary school pupils in Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, killing three. WATCH: Three Durban schoolchildren die after being hit by a taxi Three schoolchildren have been killed and another is in a serious condition after they were struck by a minibus taxi on Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, KwaZulu-Natal. WATCH: 45 children tumble out of packed Nelson Mandela Bay taxi Nelson Mandela Bay Metro Police arrested a taxi driver who severely overloaded a minibus taxi on Monday, February 18. WATCH | Wife, colleagues pay tribute to metro cop killed by taxi A Durban metro police officer, who was run over and killed while on duty outside the Galleria Mall in Amanzimtoti, will be laid to rest on Monday morning. WATCH: Taxi collision leaves 1 dead in Ballito One person has been killed following a collision between a taxi and a light vehicle in Ballito on Saturday afternoon. Watch. WATCH: Aerial view of Secunda taxi strike Scores of taxi drivers in Secunda, Mpumalanga caused a traffic jam on roads moving in and out of the city centre. WATCH: Durban taxi driver crams 25 commuters into crowded taxi A taxi driver was fined R 5000 after he was found to have 25 passengers in his taxi in Durban last week. WATCH: From Soweto to the skies - entrepreneur creates 'air taxi' business The first black-owned air taxi is bringing affordable flights to more 150 airports across the country. What the CEO Thokozani Miya describes as "Uber in the air". Watch. WATCH: Pedestrian mowed down by taxi driving in the wrong lane A taxi driving on the wrong side of the road knocked over a pedestrian in morning traffic in Sharonlea, Johannesburg on Monday. WATCH: Brother of slain Durban businessman says they will not accept an apology "We won't accept an apology from a hitman," said the family of a Durban businessman whose murder was caught on camera in August.

Kidesh Ramjettan was killed execution style in August in a hit at his petrol station in Rossburgh, south of Durban.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.