Jenni Evans WATCH: Rohde 'used wife's body as a show house' to sell his story – Judge Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe referenced Jason Rohde's history as the former CEO of Lew Geffen Sotheby's International Realty by comparing the staging of his wife's suicide to the staging of a house by estate agents. Jason Rohde. (Gallo Images/Brenton Geach) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The court which found former estate agent Jason Rohde guilty of murdering his wife Susan and staging her suicide was "mentally cruel" in an "unfair" trial, according to his application for leave to appeal his convictions and sentence. "During the trial, the court made various rulings, issued orders, acted or omitted to act and/or conducted itself in a manner that (individually and cumulatively) had the effect of constituting an infringement and a violation of the accused's right to a fair trial," Rohde's attorneys submitted in the application. On February 27, Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe sentenced Rohde to 18 years in prison for Susan's murder, and five years for staging a suicide. Three of the five years were ordered to run concurrently, meaning Rohde would have to serve an effective 20 years in jail. Earlier on Tuesday, the application for leave to appeal was filed in the Western Cape High Court. WATCH: Jason Rohde sentenced to effective 20 years in jail The Western Cape High Court sentenced Jason Rohde to an effective 20 years in prison for killing his wife Susan and staging her suicide in Stellenbosch in 2016. According to the submissions, the court was unfair to Rohde, believed witnesses that should not have been believed, dismissed an expert who could have provided valuable insight in Rohde's defence, and may even have exceeded the recommended sentence. The attorneys submitted that Salie-Hlophe came to her finding - that Susan Rohde was murdered by Jason while they were at an estate agents' conference at Spier Wine estate and that he staged her suicide - without any help from an expert medical assessor. Susan was found dead at the wine estate in Stellenbosch on July 24, 2016. Rohde pleaded not guilty to murder, submitting instead that his wife had used a curling iron cord to hang herself from the bathroom door after a fraught evening. READ: Susan Rohde 'went ballistic' at Spier when she caught husband texting girlfriend The attorneys said Rohde was treated unfairly when he became ill, even though he had always been punctual and co-operative. He was hauled out of a medical facility and kept in jail for a night at Salie-Hlophe's orders, for not arriving at court, even though his psychiatrist had testified that he was on intravenous medication for severe depression while out on bail.     The court did not check whether it would be good for his health to go to court in that state, and allegedly carried out this bail violation arrest in terms of an invalid warrant, Rohde's legal team alleged. "By acting as aforesaid, the court conducted itself towards the accused in a manner that was degrading, immensely intimidating, humiliating, totally unsympathetic and mentally cruel," the application read. They said this was in contrast to the treatment of State pathologist Dr Akmal Coetzee-Khan, who became ill during the trial and was absent from court for weeks. Rohde's defence team was particularly aggrieved because defence psychiatrist Dr Larissa Panieri-Peter was suddenly dismissed by the judge. Rohde's lawyer said that Rohde was treated as guilty instead of innocent until proven otherwise, and accused the court of curtailing or interrupting legitimate cross-examination and taking into account information that was not presented to the court, but found on the internet. The court also allegedly became subjectively involved in the trial, the papers continued.     The papers alleged that the court may already have made up its mind before closing arguments were presented. The papers alleged that the court may already have made up its mind before closing arguments were presented. This was based on the fact that 254 pages of typed pages for the judgment and a condensed version of 60 pages were made available less than 18 hours after closing arguments had been presented on behalf of the accused on November 7, 2018. Rohde's guilty verdict was handed down on November 8, 2018. They also submitted that Rohde's sentence was "overtly subjective, cruel and constituted a personal diatribe against and an attack on the accused", based on "supposition and conjecture". It should have imposed a sentence of less than 15 years, considering that the case had serious adverse financial and other implications for his business and family, and that the case will always haunt him. "The sentence imposed by the court is an extremely lengthy, harsh and severe one," the application read. The parties have to wait to be allocated a date for the appeal, if successful. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Jason Rohde guilty of murder; bail denied (full stream) Jason Rohde has been found guilty of the murder of his wife Susan by the Western Cape High Court on Thursday. Lawyers react after El Chapo found guilty Lawyers react after Mexican mobster Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman was found guilty by a New York jury of crimes spanning a quarter of a century. "He was bringing our spirits up," one of his lawyers says, at the conclusion of the three-month trial of o... Vatican treasurer found guilty of abusing two choir boys Cardinal George Pell, the Vatican treasurer and a former top adviser to Pope Francis, is found guilty on five charges of child sexual offenses committed more than two decades ago against 13-year-old boys. MOMENT OF TRUTH: Jason Rohde found guilty of murder Jason Rohde was found guilty of the murder of his wife Susan by the Western Cape High Court on Thursday. He was also found guilty of obstructing the ends of justice. 

Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe delivered her judgment in under two hours. Egypt executes nine men Egypt executed 9 political prisoners today after controversially finding them guilty for the murder of Egypt's former prosecutor general. International human rights organizations have condemned the execution. #egypt #muslimbrotherhood #morsi German gets life sentence for poisoning colleagues' sandwiches A 57-year-old man was sentenced to life by a German court on Thursday for attempted murder after he was caught on camera poisoning a colleague's lunch. Mia Womersley reports RAW: Family of Patricia Riggs speaks outside court Members of Patricia Anne Riggs' family speak after her husband, Edmund Ian Riggs, was acquitted of her murder in 2001. He was instead found guilty of her manslaughter by a Brisbane Supreme Court jury on Wednesday. Her brother, Mark Knowles, calls for Riggs to reveal where the rest of her remains are. Huawei CFO suing Canada over December arrest Huawei Chief Financial Officer Meng Wanzhou is suing the Canadian government, its border agency, and federal police. She alleges she was detained, searched, and interrogated for three hours in violation of her constitutional rights. Doan "shocked" after not guilty verdict in screwdriver death A recreational fisherman has been found not guilty of murdering an Irish father-of-two by stabbing him in the head with a screwdriver during a fight next to Perth's Swan River. after swift deliberations by the jury. His defence counsel 


Michael Perrella alongisde Andrew Doan and his fiance Wendy Wang, speak to media outside Perth's District Court. Doan, 35, stood trial over the death of Charles John McCarthy, 32, in East Fremantle on December 23, 2017. Mr Doan was acquitted of both murder and the alternative charge of manslaughter. 
Mr Doan says he was shocked by the verdict and is happy to be back with his family. Ex-Minneapolis cop arrives in court ahead of trial A former Minneapolis police officer charged in the 2017 shooting death of an unarmed Australian woman appeared in court Friday, as attorneys for both sides argued several issues in his case. RAW: Teacher's Pet journalist's evidence "significant": Dawson's lawyer Chris Dawson's lawyer, Greg Walsh speaking to media outside Downing Centre Local Court in Sydney and says it is very significant that The Australian's journalist Hedley Thomas will give evidence during the trial. Dawson is charged with murdering his wife Lynette in Sydney in 1982. Cardinal Barbarin found guilty and Jewish museum trial Euronews brought you the latest news and updates as they happened this morning. SC Refers Ayodhya Land Dispute Case For Mediation The Supreme Court today favoured amicable settlement of Ayodhya's Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid land dispute case through mediation. The top court’s order has invited a few reactions by political leaders. Hear out. SC Reserves Order On Mediation Over Ayodhya Dispute The Supreme Court today said it intends to pass the order soon on whether to refer the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid land dispute case for mediation and asked all the parties concerned for the names of possible mediators for reaching an amicable se... James Gargasoulas arrives for sentencing at the Supreme Court James Gargasoulas arrives at the Supreme Court of Victoria for sentencing. Gargasoulas, 29, killed six people and injured dozens more when he drove into pedestrians in Melbourne's Bourke St. Is Meditation The Way Forward At Ayodhya? The Supreme Court today said it intends to pass the order soon on whether to refer the Ram Janmabhoomi-Babri Masjid land dispute case for mediation and asked all the parties concerned for the names of possible mediators for reaching an amicable se... Trump: Federal courts in Ninth Circuit 'very unfair' President Donald Trump is railing against federal courts in the Ninth Circuit, describing them as 'very unfair' after a federal judge in Northern Calif. blocked Trump's emergency restrictions on asylum claims. Judge puts Daniels' lawsuit against Trump lawyer on hold Adult-film star Stormy Daniels’ lawsuit against U.S. President Donald Trump’s personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, will be paused for 90 days, the federal judge in the case ordered on Friday, saying that Cohen’s constitutional rights could be endangere... Can children sue President Trump over climate change? Can children sue the president over climate change?
A federal appeals court heard arguments on whether Donald Trump and his administration can be sued by a group of children over the president's environmental policy. Father of boy who died of meningitis 'vindicated' by court ruling Canada's top court has thrown out the guilty verdicts for a couple whose toddler died of bacterial meningitis and ordered a new trial. David Stephan says he and his wife Collet are "extremely grateful" after Tuesday's ruling. Court: Uber allowed to remain in London, for now A London court has ruled that reforms made by Uber are enough to keep its operating license in that city, but it will be reviewed again in 15 months. Kesha has counterclaim rejected by courts Kesha has had her counterclaim against Dr. Luke rejected by the Appeal's Court, meaning he is still pursuing legal action for defamation. PM: High Court's decision to overturn John Worboys raises 'serious concerns' The High Court decision to quash the release of black-cab rapist John Worboys gives rise to "serious concerns", Prime Minister Theresa May said as she praised the "brave" victims who brought the legal action. WATCH LIVE: Jason Rohde sentencing procedures get underway Convicted murderer Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings will get underway in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday December 5. Glen Assoun acquitted of murder after serving 17 years in prison The Nova Scotia Supreme Court has acquitted Glen Assoun of a murder for which he served almost 17 years in prison. The acquittal came Friday, after federal Justice Minister David Lametti ordered a new trial saying there was a reasonable basis to s... Top pope aide Cardinal Pell convicted of child sex crimes A court has found  Australian Cardinal George Pell guilty on one count of sexual abuse and four counts of indecent assault of two boys at Saint Patrick's Cathedral in Melbourne in the 1990s. Pell was convicted at a retrial on December 11, but a wi... Father of Claremont victim outside Perth court Ciara Glennon's father, Denis, outside the WA Supreme Court. She is one of the victims in the Claremont serial killings case. Accused murderer Bradley Robert Edwards is facing a pre-trial hearing over the admissibility of some evidence for his trial in July. Teenager found guilty of murdering six-year-old Alisha MacPhail A 16-year-old boy has been found guilty of abducting, raping and murdering six-year-old Alesha MacPhail.
A jury at the High Court in Glasgow took three hours to find the teenager, who cannot be named due to his age, guilty unanimously, following a... Former Spanish PM Rajoy arrives to testify in separatist trial Spain's former prime minister Mariano Rajoy, in power when Catalonia's executive tried to secede, arrives at the Spanish Supreme Court in Madrid to testify in the trial of separatist leaders in a highly sensitive hearing just months before elections. Trump expects court fight over national emergency President Donald Trump says he expects legal challenges to his decision to declare a national emergency to erect barriers between the U.S. and Mexico but says he'll be vindicated. Far-right Vox party present at former Catalan leaders trial Far-right party Vox's secretary-general, Javier Ortega Smith, says his party will request the "highest penalties for those who have committed the most serious crimes against the Constitution and against Spain" as he arrives at court for the  much-... Monsanto says poisoned farmer’s symptoms 'do not exist' as 12 year-long case continues Agrochemical giant Monsanto has said that the severe neurological problems suffered by a French cereal farmer, who routinely used its weed killing product, don’t exist.
Monsanto’s lawyer, Jean-Daniel Bretzner, denied the company bore any responsib... Man who lodged two jihadists faces appeals trial in France Jawad Bendaoud arrives in court, as prosecutors appeal a decision to release him, after he housed two jihadists following the November 2015 Paris attacks. Myanmar: Men accused of Ko Ni murder arrive at court The men accused of plotting the 2017 murder of Ko Ni, a Muslim lawyer and senior advisor to Myanmar's civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi, arrive at a Yangon court where a verdict is expected for their trial which has lasted almost two years. Woman acquitted of manslaughter in Perth court gives tearful tribute to "most wonderful"husband Hazel Margaret Spenceley, 79, on February 26 speaks to reporters outside WA's Supreme Court where she was facing trial over the manslaughter of her husband Peter Spenceley. She was found not guilty of killing her husband, who drowned in their pool... Former Catalan vice president tells court he is a 'political prisoner' “This is a political trial and I refuse to answer to my accusers... I am a political prisoner and I am on trial for my ideas,” Oriol Junqueras said. J&K Administration Dismisses Rumours On Article 35A People in Kashmir Valley went in for panic buying of food items amid rumours that Article 35A might be revoked. As the Supreme Court is set to hear plea challenging validity of Article 35A, the J&K governor’s administration has asked people not to... EDO CEO addresses media after NSW court rejects proposed coal mine Environmental Defenders Office chief executive David Morris speaks to reporters about a court decision to reject the Rocky Hill coal mine.
The chief judge of the NSW Land and Environment Court on Friday dismissed Gloucester Resources Limited's appeal of the Department of Planning and Environment's 2017 decision to not approve the mine in the NSW Hunter.
"The judgement is, I think, the first big piece of climate change litigation that this country has seen," Mr Morris says. Drug lord, 'El Chapo' guilty on all counts Jurors found Mexico's most feared drug kingpin, Joaquin 'El Chapo' Guzman, guilty of all ten criminal counts. He now faces a possible sentence of life in prison. Frenchman jailed for life in Jewish museum attack French citizen Mehdi Nemmouche was sentenced to life in jail on Tuesday for shooting dead four people in a Jewish museum in 2014, after an eight-hour long deliberation of the jury on the length of his penalty. Weinstein lawyer confident client will be "exonerated" at trial "We intend to continue to vigorously defend this case ... and we remain confident, despite the court's ruling today, that ultimately, at a trial of this case, Mr Weinstein will be completely exonerated" says Harvey Weinstein's attorney Ben Brafman... Abuse is hurled at George Pell as he leaves court Abuse is hurled at Cardinal George Pell as he leaves Melbourne's County Court. A gag order suppressing details of the case from being published was lifted on Tuesday. Pell's lawyer Robert Richter QC told Chief Judge Peter Kidd on Tuesday that he'd... Reporter: El Chapo upbeat at trial AP reporter Claudia Torrens has been covering the trial of Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman since it began and describes how the jury deliberations have been going in recent days. Vatican treasurer faces historical abuse trial Vatican Treasurer George Pell must face trial on charges of historical sexual offences, an Australian court ruled on Tuesday, making him the most senior Catholic official to be tried on such allegations. He pleaded not guilty. Lawyers representing Gargasoulas victims say the 46 year sentence isn't enough Arrival of James Gargasoulas at the Supreme Court of Victoria with departures of family of victims, and audio of a statement from Genna Angelowitsch - senior associate at AdviceLine Injury Lawyers on behalf of two of the families represented. Garg...   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.