Kyle Cowan Jacob Zuma (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former president Jacob Zuma oversaw the creation of parallel structures within the intelligence service to serve his personal and factional ANC party political interests, breaching the Constitution in the process. This, according to the findings of a high-level review panel report on the State Security Agency (SSA), which revealed that not only was the SSA repurposed to serve Zuma's interests, but was created irregularly in terms of the Constitution, which requires intelligence structures to be set up through legislative changes and not presidential proclamations. By amalgamating the National Intelligence Agency and South African Secret Service, Zuma also effectively decimated the efficient functioning of their successor, the SSA. The bombshell report, published by President Cyril Ramaphosa's office on Saturday afternoon, is a damning indictment on how factions within the ANC, led by Zuma, subjugated the intelligence capabilities of the state since 2005, a key year in Zuma's rise to power. Under Zuma, the SSA spied on unions and civil society organisations such as Right2Know and the Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution (Casac). It also influenced the media, established fake unions in Marikana, abused funds and conducted illegal intelligence gathering operations. The report recommends: - A forensic investigation into the finances of the SSA to make a full determination of abuse of secret funds to establish basis for disciplinary charges and/or criminal prosecution; - Changes to financial controls, including giving wider access to finances to the Auditor General and chief financial officers and alternative methods of payment to cut down on cash uses; - Sweeping legislative reforms to seek a clearer mandate for envisaged return to two separate agencies focused on foreign and domestic intelligence and stricter controls on governance of agencies; - The legislative changes should include decentralisation of decision-making powers held by the director general and minister, and suggests a change in the appointment processes of spy bosses; - Disciplinary action and/or criminal prosecution for Zuma, ministers, SSA bosses and staff who wilfully violated laws in issuing and executing illegal orders; - Giving the Inspector General of Intelligence independence, to enable the office of the IG to conduct its work without interference; - And the establishment of a task team and restructuring team to deal with the proposed restructuring into two agencies and to undertake an extensive review of current legislation, with an eye on implementation. The panel, which was led by Sydney Mufamadi, handed its report to Ramaphosa in December, and a redacted version was released on Saturday. Rise to power "From about 2005, with the emergence of the divisions in the ANC, there has been a growing politicisation and factionalisation of the civilian intelligence community based on the factions in the ANC. This has been partly aggravated by the fact that many of the leadership and management of the intelligence services have come from an ANC and liberation struggle background and have seemingly, in some cases, not been able to separate their professional responsibilities from their political inclinations", the report concludes. "This became progressively worse during the administration of the former president, with parallel structures being created that directly served the personal and political interests of the president and, in some cases, the relevant ministers. All this was in complete breach of the Constitution, the White Paper, the legislation and other prescripts." The year 2005 was a seminal year in Zuma's rise to political power. He was fired from his position of deputy president by then-head of party and state Thabo Mbeki, shortly after his friend Schabir Shaik was convicted of fraud and corruption relating to the multi-billion rand "arms deal" saga. Months after his 2005 axing, the ANC's National General Conference expressed overwhelming support for Zuma, eventually leading to his election as ANC president at the party's now infamous 2007 National Elective Conference, held in Polokwane. By the time of his election, Zuma had already turned to the National Intelligence Agency, whose then-deputy boss Arthur Fraser had already allegedly handed over the so-called "spy tapes" to Zuma's lawyers. The tapes, which included intercepted phone conversations between former NPA head Bulelani Ngcuka and then-Scorpions boss Leonard McCarthy, were the main reason behind the NPA withdrawing corruption charges against Zuma. This paved the way for Zuma to stand for election, while Fraser was later appointed as the director general of the SSA. He is accused of operating the Principle Agent Network (PAN). PAN, abolished in 2011, is described as another parallel intelligence structure that allegedly spirited away nearly R1bn in state funds over three years, and diverted the intelligence mechanisms of the state to Fraser.  PODCAST: Zuma's nine lost years? Ramaphosa shouldn't forget — he was there AUDIO: 2019 is off to a flying start, from Bosasa and the endless inquiries to Solly Msimanga stepping down as Tshwane mayor and electioneering getting into full swing.

This week on POLOTIKI, we discuss former president Jacob Zuma's legacy. WATCH: 'Give me a tender' - sings satirical 'Elvis' on Bosasa scandal The much-talked about Bosasa scandal has gripped South Africa over the past week since former chief-operating officer Angelo Agrizzi blew the whistle on bribery and corruption. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma's culpable homicide trial postponed to March The culpable homicide case against Duduzane Zuma was postponed to March 26 in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday. WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma. Zuma on land: Less debate, more nationalisation Former President Jacob Zuma said there is too much debate about land expropriation without compensation to his liking, and suggested that land should be nationalised. WATCH: 'It's me, former president Jacob Zuma' - Zuma joins social media Former president Jacob Zuma says he has decided to "move with times" and join various social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. PARODY: Jacob Zuma sings Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word The closest SA may get to an apology from Jacob Zuma, is this parody of the president singing Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. WATCH: Nugent commission deviated from original mandate says Moyane's lawyer Former president Jacob Zuma has entered the fray over the firing of South African Revenue Service (SARS) commissioner Tom Moyane, saying Judge Robert Nugent was not asked to deal with the individual contracts of employees at SARS.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.