Sesona Ngqakamba WATCH: More than 170 left homeless after fire rages through Alexandra Over 100 shacks were destroyed by a fire in Alexandra north of Johannesburg on Tuesday afternoon. Hundreds of Sjwetla informal settlement residents in Alexandra had to stay out of work on Wednesday to try and pick up the parts of their burnt homes after a fire destroyed more than 100 shacks in the area on Tuesday Clean-up operations were under way from as early as 06:00 as residents tried to collect corrugated iron and other materials that were not badly burnt. "Everything is burnt. Everything from the house is burnt. My R2 000 which I had in the house is also burnt," a devastated resident, Idia Manuel, told News24. Manuel said everything was a mess when the fire erupted at midday on Tuesday. They weren't able to save anything from the blaze. She pleaded for someone to help her fix her shack, saying that she had nowhere else to go. Another resident, Anthon Mhlanga, said he was at work when he received a call telling him that his shack was on fire. He rushed home to try and save his belongings but it was already too late. "I came back in a hurry and found the fire blazing. There was nothing I could do here because it was blazing. All the homes are burnt; beds; all of my things," said Mhlanga. READ: Number of shacks destroyed in Alex fire rises to more than 100 The worried residents are pleading with the government to provide conducive housing and temporary accommodation while clean-up operations are ongoing. No injuries were reported. "We are okay, we slept well," added Mhlanga. The City's disaster management and other organisations were on the scene on Wednesday registering affected residents. PICS: The Aftermath of a fire in Alexandra that left hundreds of residents with no shelter. Disaster Management is on scene. Residents are picking up the pieces. #AlexFire (@Sesona_Ngqaks) pic.twitter.com/g5ps5JTeGi  Disaster relief organisation Gift of the Givers responded with 200 blankets and mattresses for the victims on Tuesday night. While some residents had to seek refuge at friends' places, others were accommodated in local halls and creches. Disaster Management and Gift of the Givers have also set up a command centre at the village. "A number of victims have taken shelter in the Gift of the Givers 'Green Village' since last night. The village is in close proximity to the disaster area," Gift of the Givers' Imtiaz Sooliman said. Shoprite/Checkers was also on scene feeding affected people. Fire victims are now going to be served lunch, courtesy of @GiftoftheGivers. @TeamNews24#AlexFire pic.twitter.com/W58w1fJlJp  While initial reports suggested that the fire was started when a City Power pylon collapsed, witnesses and preliminary investigations revealed otherwise, City Power spokesperson Isaac Mangena said. City Power will now probe whether the pylon structure was weakened or possibly vandalised by residents who had built under it, making it susceptible to collapse. Mangena said pylons were meant to withstand the harshest weather conditions. "Our investigation will look [at why] it was easy for this pylon to fall and it happened so quickly," Mangena said. He said the damage so far was estimated at R5m. WATCH: Officials inform Stjwetla informal settlement residents to move from the area by 10:00 on Thursday as Eskom will be removing the Pylon and burnt electricity lines. Residents urged not to rebuild their homes. @TeamNews24#AlexFire pic.twitter.com/FLFZVuI0jR  Eskom will remove the burnt lines. Residents whose structures were not affected by the blaze, but which are built below the lines, have been asked to vacate the area so that the lines can be fixed. "We are meeting with disaster management and the Department of Housing later. They are here as well, also looking at what they can do. What we are going to appeal to them is that people should not be allowed to rebuild under these lines. People should [have] proper and safe accommodation where they do not have threats of electric wires above their heads," said Mangena. City Power technicians worked throughout the night to restore power to affected areas, following the pylon collapse.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.