 Some years
back, a senior spook travelled to the United States to visit the Central
Intelligence Agency (CIA). There he found a group of experts from various
fields in the office of the CIA director, discussing what trends were likely to
change the world in the coming years. They
discussed smart electricity grids, batteries, electric cars, and "smart"
materials such as smart phones. Back home,
the South African intelligence services were more consumed by internal
factional battles surrounding the president than the trends of the future, so
much so that they missed one of the biggest threats to the sovereignty of the
country: state capture. This is the kind of intelligence blunder that is borne out by the kinds
of problems highlighted by the explosive High-Level Panel Report on the State
Security Agency (SSA), released by President Cyril Ramaphosa last weekend. The report decries
the politicisation of the civilian intelligence agencies, which it says began around
2005 – the year Jacob Zuma was fired as deputy president of the country – and
later charged with rape (of which he was acquitted). It says that this
politicisation intensified around 2009, when Zuma became state president. According to the former spook, in those early years of the Zuma
presidency, "friends" of the president were starting to irk in
intelligence circles. Former intelligence heads Mo Shaik, Gibson Njenje, and
Jeff Maqetuka were fired when they wanted to investigate the Guptas. But it was worse than that. For the last decade and more, our spooks have been preoccupied with "political
intelligence gathering" – looking under every rock for signs of "social
unrest" and spying on political foes, like protagonists in a Cold War
spy-versus-spy novel. Anyone seen to be rocking the boat – journalists, civil society, unions –
was fair game. The SSA report attests to this unlawful intelligence gathering on
perfectly benign organisations, which exist in any country with even the
faintest regard for human rights. While the
SSA is legitimately mandated to do security vetting, what threat these organisations
posed to national security was indeed a secret known only to the state. But it was
even worse than that. The CIA was
issuing warnings to South Africa that terrorist cells were operating in the
country. "[The
minister] told them to fuck off," News24 was reliably told. Incompetence Few thought
the country could pull off an incident-free 2010 Soccer World Cup in a crime-ridden
country like South Africa. "I
still believe there's enormous capacity in the intelligence services," the
former spook says, pointing to this success. But the
world is changing, and our intelligence services need to move beyond navel-gazing. Says the
former spook: "Artificial intelligence, the internet of things, cyber
security… there is a role there for intelligence services to be on top of these
developments, and to help government stay ahead of the curve. You need data
scientists, computer scientists, mathematicians – skills that are highly
competed for in the world. Do we have those skills in our intelligence
services? I don't think so." The SSA
report makes the World Cup intelligence success look like a glitch in the
matrix. Politics The report
makes it clear that the ANC's factional battles are a big part of the problem. However,
Ronnie Kasrils, who became intelligence minister in 2005, says understanding what
came before 2005 is vital to unpacking what went wrong at the SSA. The apartheid
regime was "taking out people" as early as the 1970s and was
infiltrating the ANC from at least a decade earlier, he says. "The
drive to protect the ANC and its leaders meant that they had to be very tough.
The regime was very, very ruthless. It's a life and death struggle. Within such
a context, and it is akin to what liberation movements were facing all over the
world, a great deal of paranoia grows, which is what the enemy plays on,"
says Kasrils. This is why
intelligence requires maturity and level-headedness, he says; people who can
read the difference between real spies and fake ones. In the absence of this, "awful
mistakes" happen. Mandela This sense
of inward-looking suspicion was birthed in a real struggle, with real dangers.
But it became a paranoia and clung to the ANC's DNA like a genetic disease. Things became
murkier still in the Mandela-period as the government tried to replace
apartheid's "ruthless" security apparatus with something resembling
what an intelligence agency should look like in a democracy. It added
new levels of paranoia to mix. Mandela
himself was less inclined to use the new intelligence services as his personal
spy agency. South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) general secretary
Zwelinzima Vavi says the intelligence services were also less inclined to play
to any one politician's whims, in part because "Mandela was a little bit
authoritarian". Vavi, a
former general secretary of Cosatu, was a strong supporter of Zuma and endorsed
his campaign to succeed Mbeki. He is now a fierce critic of Zuma. "Mandela
could impose policies without discussion. We hated that. But still we had no
doubt that he believed he was doing the right thing. He didn't have people
whispering in his ear," he said. The Mandela
government also wanted to protect the political independence of the country's
spies, so as to prevent them from remaining partial to either the ANC or the
apartheid government. Mbeki Thabo Mbeki
had other ideas. (Mbeki declined to be interviewed for this article.) He appointed
the first minister of intelligence in 1999. Many in the intelligence community
were nervous about this development, as it had previously been decided that
there would only be a coordinator who would be the administrative link between
the military, civilian and police intelligence services, and the executive. There was
no getting around the fact that a minister was a political post. Insiders refer
to Mbeki's paranoia that took hold during his fight with his deputy. In years that
followed, intelligence factions settled around the giant Mbeki and Zuma
factions like star dust forming rings around giant planets in the cosmos. Kasrils
says it took him about six months in the post of minister of intelligence to
realise how badly the spooks were being used in the battles at play. He
describes what it was like in those heady days. "I was
most troubled. I could see that top officials were unreliable and could not be
trusted. I stayed up late at night trawling through reports trying to figure
out what was wrong; looking for clues which I did come across and which set me
on the path to uncover the rot. "What
was worse was discovering ANC, SACP and Cosatu leaders who I tried to warn were
simply not interested as they had either been genuinely hoodwinked by Zuma's
cries about a conspiracy against him by Mbeki or simply did not want to believe
the facts I placed before them which would get in the way of their ambitions to
unseat the then president and their ambitions to become ministers. "The
weakness of the [SSA] report is the failure to analyse the events of 2005-2006.
The report doesn't even appear to consider the Inspector General's report into
the fabricated emails which link with the illegal interception of the Scorpions
and the spy tapes that emerged." All of this
played into Zuma's victimhood narrative. "He
had us all fooled," says Vavi. "It helped Zuma to go big time into
this conspiracy theory. But it was not true. Most of it was proven to be a
fallacy." "Zuma
is a master (at intelligence). He listens to the people who come to him at
night – this parallel intelligence (network). He listens to conspiracy theories
the whole night. But he has been abusing his position as former intelligence to
blackmail many people into silence," Vavi says, noting Zuma's response to
the SSA report, which was to hint that it was compiled by apartheid spies and
threatening to "open a can of worms". Says
Kasrils, "People came to Zuma's rescue by reinforcing his conspiracy
theories". If the
intelligence services had been deeply political before Polokwane, they were
almost irreparably political after. Attempts to
fix things were stopped in Parliament. For
instance, Kasrils wanted the Protection of Information Bill, an apartheid relic
that was clearly unconstitutional, revised, and a public interest defence
clause entered into the bill that would protect legitimate whistle blowers and
the media. But a
portfolio committee on intelligence heavily aligned to Zuma blocked him, on
this and other attempts at reform, he says. Zuma None of the
more than 20 references to Zuma (although the report does not mention him) in
the SSA report are flattering. Zuma's very
first mistake was to establish the SSA, an amalgamation of the NIA and the
South African Secret Service (Sass) by presidential proclamation in 2009. The
Constitution says he can only do this "through legislation". Borne in
unlawfulness, the SSA has been pummelled by factional whims, criminal activity,
and operational ineptitude, as the report attests. Reforming it will be no easy
task. But if there is any hope at all, one thing is clear: political
intelligence gathering by the SSA must stop. 