Canny Maphanga Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane. (Pic: Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Public Protector advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane on Thursday revealed that the institution will only be able to defend 13 out of the 21 cases on judicial review. "As we speak, 21 out of the more than 70 investigation reports that I have issued since I assumed duty are under review. "We are defending only 13 due to these resource constraints. In the rest of the cases we have opted to abide by whatever the courts will eventually decide," Mkhwebane said at a briefing at the institution's headquarters in Tshwane. The briefing was aimed at naming and shaming organs of state that have defied the remedial action that she had recommended in her reports. "Despite repeated instances of writing to them, following up on implementation and, in some cases, holding meetings with them, our pleas have simply fallen on deaf ears. "The parties concerned have neither met the time frames stipulated in the reports nor fully implemented the remedial action, if at all," she said. OVERVIEW: 'Maladministration is a fertile ground for corruption' - Mkhwebane names and shames state organs that defy her directives #PublicProtector : "I would like to remind organs of state of the reality that cooperation with our investigations & compliance with remedial action is not optional" - Mkhwebane @TeamNews24 . While the Public Protector did not specify what the 13 cases would be, she said they spoke to the core mandate of the institution. "How we choose which cases to defend is by looking at the ones that will have an impact on the mandate of the Public Protector," she told the media. This, however, will come at a hefty price which exceeds the Public Protector's budget and resources. "There is a success rate in cases where we defend, about R1.9m in costs is coming back to us where we have been successful. "We have budgeted R4m in the past year for litigation but we spent more. This financial year we have budgeted R10m to defend matters on review," Mkhwebane explained. #PublicProtector : Mkhwebane says that the institution has budgeted R10 million in this financial year to defend matters on review @TeamNews24 .  Mkhwebane also took the opportunity to commend organs of state that readily welcome her reports and implement the suggested remedial action. ALSO READ: Public Protector to investigate Ramaphosa-Bosasa donation "They understand that we are there to point them to their mistakes so that they can get it right in the future," she said. An example of this is Gauteng MEC for Human Settlements, Uhuru Moiloa according to the Public Protector. This comes after a report found that the Department of Human Settlements in the province had wronged a group of 45 business people contracted to construct low-cost houses in the Alexandra township in the late 90s. The department accepted the findings and "is in the process of doing right by the people affected". #PublicProtector : Mkhwebane names MEC Moiloa who is an example of a public office-bearer that "respects this institution & understands that it is not about me but the complainants who look to my office to vindicate their rights" @TeamNews24 .  "For this I would like to single out MEC Moiloa, who has gone beyond just complying in this case but went further to assure me of his department's full cooperation with my office in other matters. "There are many other public office-bearers who, like MEC Moiloa, respect this institution and understand that it is not about me but the complainants who look to my office to vindicate their rights," she concluded. ANALYSIS: Ramaphosa appoints advocate Shamila Batohi as new NPA boss President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced advocate Shamila Batohi as the new head of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). Lawson Naidoo, joins News24 opinions editor Alet Janse van Rensburg and News24 editor-in-chief in studio for analysis. WATCH: Barbara Hogan testifies at state capture inquiry (Part 5) Former minister of public enterprises Barbara Hogan on Monday gave testimony at the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. WATCH: The mini budget in under 3 minutes Fin24's Moeshfieka Botha gives an overview of what Finance Minister Tito Mboweni said about VAT, spending shortfalls and the economy in his maiden mini budget  speech in Parliament on Wednesday. PODCAST: #SONA2019 | Focus on the economy (almost a Mbeki-type speech) This week on POLOTIKI we discuss President Cyril Ramaphosa's second State of the Nation Address, delivered on Thursday evening during a joint session of Parliament. WATCH: Mbalula willing to testify at #StateCaptureInquiry Fikile Mbalula on Thursday said he is ready to testify at the state capture inquiry. WATCH: Mixed reaction to Ramaphosa's SONA speech While some political figures lauded President Cyril Ramaphosa's second State of the Nation speech, others dismissed it as 'lip service' and 'a campaigning speech'. Watch.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.