Kaveel Singh Flood. (AP, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The body of another victim of Durban's weekend flash flooding has been found near a stream, north of the city. The provincial cooperative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) department confirmed that the man was one of two who were washed away while crossing a bridge in Verulam on Sunday. He was found near a stream in the Hazelmere area. "One of them has been found alive while the body that has been recovered is believed to be that of the second man," Cogta spokesperson Lennox Mabaso said on Tuesday. In a separate incident, Mabaso said a 12-year-old child is believed to have drowned in the uMshwathi Local Municipality. Also read: 'It could have been my own child' - Alexandra flash flood hero Vincent Cosa "Police say that search operations had to be called off when crocodiles were spotted in [the] water." On Monday, Cogta MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube and eThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede led mop-up operations in KwaMashu C Section where multiple homes were flooded. They also visited the area of Amaoti where three family members – a mother, father and a child were washed away. "The bodies of the father and a child have been recovered but the mother is still missing. These latest updates mean that three bodies have been recovered since yesterday and two are still missing," Mabaso said. WATCH: Weekend hail leaves parts of Pretoria covered in ice Severe weather conditions hit large parts of Gauteng this past weekend after the South African Weather Service (SAWS) issued a notice for severe thunderstorms across the province. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. WATCH: Temperatures to increase after parts of SA experience heavy rain and snowfall South Africans in eastern regions of the country were forced to pack away their shorts and sandals because of icy temperatures. Watch the video above to see snowy scenes across South Africa. WATCH: How Do Clouds Make Rain? From evaporation to condensation, here's a fun experiment to explain to kids how clouds are formed and it eventually rains. WATCH: Three Durban schoolchildren die after being hit by a taxi Three schoolchildren have been killed and another is in a serious condition after they were struck by a minibus taxi on Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, KwaZulu-Natal. WATCH: Grief, anger as Durban community mourns teenagers killed by taxi Grief-stricken Newlands East residents became enraged on Wednesday after a minibus taxi ran into four secondary school pupils in Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, killing three. WATCH: Diver struggles to wade through trash in Durban harbour Video footage of a diver struggling to make his way out of the Durban harbour due to a line of trash has surfaced on social media.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.