Jenna Etheridge Dr Monty Brink (Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Tributes have poured in for gynaecologist and obstetrician Dr Monty Brink, who died while participating in the Cape Town Cycle Tour on Sunday. His former patients described him as a caring and kind doctor who went the extra mile. Brink, who worked at Mediclinic Constantiaberg, died after collapsing at Smitswinkel Bay, Sport24 reported. His practice announced on Facebook: "It is with great sadness that we announce the passing of our beloved father, husband, brother, friend and doctor to many. He touched countless lives." Posting a photo of Brink and Brink's nurse wife Liz holding his newborn child, Anton van der Merwe said he was shocked and heartbroken to hear about the death of the man who helped bring his children into the world. "We will remember him for his energy, his skill as a doctor and his kindness," Van der Merwe said, recalling that Brink had gone to deliver cold cokes to firefighters in 2015 while waiting for his daughter to arrive. "That's the kind of man he was". Sarah Kearns Roberts posted that she been thinking about Brink delivering her daughter 10 years ago to the day on Sunday when she heard the news. Many others also shared how Brink had delivered their children and made the experience a positive one to remember. Vincent Thomas shared that he owed everything he held dear to Brink: "He saved not only my 2 boys at birth but also my wife through his super human efforts and caring." A memorial service will be held at 15:00 on Saturday at Connect Church in Meadowridge. The family have asked that instead of flowers, those who would like to, could make a donation to the Zoe Project, which supports the midwife unit in Retreat. Over the Bull's Backs The Hamer people number no more than 15,000, living in the Omo River Valley at the border between Ethiopia and Sudan. For a boy to become a man they must undertake 3 trials. WARNING: Contains images of animal slaughter. 'Can we pick it up?' - Car boot diamond The BBC's Clive Myrie nervously plays host to a gem worth up to GBP350,000, but bought for GBP10. Rose McGowan: Kesha has a 'tremendous heart' Rose McGowan thinks Kesha has a "tremendous heart" and has praised her for speaking out against music producer Dr. Luke, who she claimed sexually assaulted her. Dr Dre loses trademark dispute Dr. Dre has lost a copyright infringement case against a doctor, Draion M. Burch, who wanted to trademark his name as Dr. Drai. Kate Hudson 'excited' for baby girl Kate Hudson is "really excited" to give birth to her first daughter, according to her brother Wyatt Russell. Kylie Jenner settled on baby's name months before giving birth Kylie Jenner had apparently settled on her baby's name 'Stormi' long before she was even due to give birth. Khloe Kardashian wants quick Tristan Thompson wedding Khloe Kardashian is reportedly intent on marrying her boyfriend Tristan Thompson in order to put an end to his wild ways. Just days before Khloe was due to give birth to their daughter, True Thompson, two videos emerged of Tristan with other women... BAFTA TV Awards: Michelle Collins to return to Coronation Street? Michelle Collins reveals hope for fans of Coronation Street ash she exclusively reveals that her much loved character Stella could ONE DAY return to the cobbles and if she does she'll "never leave". Cardi B suffered 'complications' after pregnancy Cardi B suffered "post-partum complications" following the birth of her baby daughter Kulture, she has revealed in court documents for her ongoing lawsuit. Cardi B suffered postpartum depression after baby Kulture's birth Cardi B has shared how she battled postpartum depression following the birth of her daughter Kulture last summer and that even though she tried to "avoid" the mood-affecting condition, she couldn't keep the baby blues at bay. Woman in burning apartment drops baby to bystander A woman dropped her baby to a bystander as a fire engulfed an apartment complex in Dallas, while other residents were forced to leap from third-floor windows on to mattresses.

A Dallas fire service official said several residents and bystanders, ... Pete Davidson jokes he switched Ariana Grande's birth control pills with Tic Tacs Pete Davidson is so shocked that he's engaged to Ariana Grande that he's desperate to get her pregnant so she can't "leave." Chrissy Teigen drank too much after daughter's birth Chrissy Teigen was "drinking too much" following the birth of her daughter two years ago, as part of her battle with postpartum depression. Endangered fishing cat fed after being rejected by mother This endangered fishing cat kitten was born by caesarian delivery at the Oklahoma Zoo, but his mother has failed to bond with him. Chrissy Teigen helped by eating placenta Chrissy Teigen thinks eating placenta is "normal" and believes it helped her avoid suffering post-partum depression for a second time. The special ritual for mothers after childbirth Why women in Ethiopia's Oromia region hold a special ceremony for a mother, five days after she gives birth. What's new for 2019: Celebrity babies on the way! Having a baby is no doubt lifechanging and since announcing their pregnancies this year, we know these lovely ladies are about welcome their mini me’s into the world. Chrissy Teigen believes she's avoided postpartum depression by eating her placenta The Model and TV presenter and her husband John Legend welcomed Baby number 2, a little boy called Miles earlier this year. His sister Luna was born in 2016 and Chrissy had suffered with postpartum depression. Funeral held for Israeli baby after West Bank shooting Relatives attend the funeral of an Israeli baby who died after its mother was shot while pregnant in a drive-by shooting by Palestinian gunmen. The child was delivered by caesarean section after the attack but died despite rescue attempts. Carney rules out Doctor Who as new face of £50 note Bank of England launch their character selection process for the £50 Design, construction flaws at Opal Tower as 150 units remain unoccupied UNSW's Professor Mark Hoffman speaks to reporters in Sydney alongside Minister for Planning and Housing Anthony Roberts and Minister for Better Regulation Matt Kean, addressing the final report into the Opal Tower. Mr Roberts says rectification de... Mindy Kailing was working out right up until the birth of baby girl Actress and comedienne Mindy Kaling has shared how when she was pregnant, she kept working out right up to the day that she went into labour last December Dr. Dre’s influence on Anderson .Paak’s ‘Oxnard’ Anderson .Paak talks working with Dr. Dre, influencing the current sound of music and explains why “Every day is another day to go viral.” Kylie Jenner 'ready' to give birth Kylie Jenner is reportedly "definitely ready" to give birth, despite having still not confirmed her pregnancy to the public. First preview of Jodie Whjittaker Doctor Who series 11 Jodie Whjittaker stars as the first female Dr in the brand new series of Doctor Who and the BBC has just given a preview of her tenure. First preview of Jodie Whittaker Doctor Who series 11 Jodie Whittaker stars as the first female Dr in the brand new series of Doctor Who and the BBC has just given a preview of her tenure. WATCH: Straight from the horse's mouth - Pretoria preacher uses trusty steed to deliver sermon Seeing a man on a horse is a rare sight nowadays, and a man on his steed in a church, even more so. Jim Broadbent would love Bodyguard role 'Game of Thrones' actor Jim Broadbent has set his sights on starring in the second series of 'Bodyguard' after being left "impressed" by the BBC One drama. Kylie Minogue cancels Sydney show due to illness Kyliie Minogue has been forced to cancel an intimate show in Sydney due to illness, and has vowed to make it up to fans who were hoping to attend the invite-only gig. Top 10 Best Ian & Mickey Moments on Shameless Love, heartbreak, and prison; these two have been to hell and back again. For this list, we’re looking at Ian Gallagher and Mickey Milkovich’s standout moments as "Shameless'" surprising but endearing ‘ship. Please be warned, spoilers ahead. Strictly has been release from my harrowing day job says Stacey Dooley Strictly Come Dancing's Stacey Dooley says the show has been an "amazing" remedy to her "harrowing" job as a documentary maker for the BBC. Matt Smith in talks to join Jared Leto in 'Morbius' Former Doctor Who star Matt Smith is apparently in talks to join Jared Leto in a new blockbuster centred on Spider-Man villain Morbius. Three-year-old helps mother give birth in birthing pool A yoga instructor whose three-year-old daughter helped deliver her baby sister, said inviting her into the birthing pool created a "sacred bond" between her children. New Doctor Jodie Whittaker calls for more diversity in top roles Jodie Whittaker has said her casting in Doctor Who shows that storytelling does not always have to come from people who look the same. New Doctor Jodie Whittaker calls for more diversity in top roles Jodie Whittaker has said her casting in Doctor Who shows that storytelling does not always have to come from people who look the same. Salvadoran on trial for attempted murder after giving birth Imelda Cortez goes on trial in southeastern El Salvador on charges of attempted murder after having a baby in a toilet in 2017. Cortez became pregnant after she was raped repeatedly by her stepfather. After the delivery, doctors believed she had h... Khloe Kardashian to give birth on Friday without Tristan Thompson? Khloe Kardashian will reportedly give birth via a scheduled cesarean section on Friday (04.13.18). Postnatal Depression Postnatal depression is common in women after they've given birth, and it seems to make sense that if women receive professional support after giving birth it would reduce the chances of developing depression. However research at the Institute of ... John Barrowman conquers Scary Rose Trial John Barrowman managed to secure an impressive 10 stars as he took on a Bushtucker Trial on 'I'm A Celebrity ... Get Me Out Of Here'. Freema Agyeman reflects on 'Doctor Who' experience Freema Agyeman, who was the companion to David Tennant's Doctor Who, recalls auditioning for the series. Doctor describes the impact on hospital Dr Tarek Seda says he had to divert a serious case because of the "cowards" behind the NHS cyber attack. Woman lifts weights at 31 weeks pregnant Gym bunny Helena Hill who wore size six skinny jeans just 12 weeks after giving birth, put her amazing physique down to weightlifting throughout her pregnancy - something she is doing now she is expecting again. The journey to Madagascar See the journey the BBC team made to film a piece about sapphire mining and lemurs in Madagascar. ICE arrests man driving pregnant wife to hospital Immigration agents have arrested an undocumented immigrant who was driving his pregnant wife to hospital to give birth. Congolese Ebola survivor gives birth to healthy baby In a rare case that's surprised doctors, a pregnant woman who was infected with ebola virus has now given birth to a healthy baby. 911 Call: Panic after comatose woman gives birth Panicked staff at a healthcare facility scrambled to save a baby born to an Arizona woman in a vegetative state amid their shock to learn she was pregnant, according to 911 audio released Friday. First baby born after womb transplant from dead donor A woman in Brazil has given birth to a baby girl after receiving a womb transplant from a deceased donor, in the first successful case of its kind. #wombtransplant #brazil #transplant WATCH: Alex hero saves stranded child A video of a man slowly shimmying his way across the Jukskei River to rescue a child stuck midway on a pipe has gone viral on social media. KYK: 'My f * k, Marelize' leer om fiets te ry Marelize Horn (19), die Namibiese vrou wat met haar fiets op 'n rugbyveld in 'n doelpaal vasgery leer hoe om 'n fiets te ry in kaapstad. Video: Adrian de Kock WATCH: Paarl Boys' students appear to support staffers accused of using corporal punishment Being hit against the head for not greeting. The "five-star treatment" on your back when your homework isn't done. Spanking with a cricket bat - all in the name of "discipline". WATCH: Cyclist gets heart attack on Cape Town Cycle Tour Tributes have poured in for gynaecologist and obstetrician Dr Monty Brink, who died while participating in the Cape Town Cycle Tour   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.