Jenni Evans Nelson Mandela University (NMU) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Police are monitoring a picket at the Nelson
Mandela University on Thursday after the institution invoked an interdict over
how students can raise concerns over funding and accommodation. "They are standing at the entrance and have
blocked up the entrance. There are no burning barricades, just tree branches
and stones blocking the road," said spokesperson Colonel Priscilla Naidu. The university announced on Wednesday that it had
obtained a final interdict from the High Court on June 19 last year, and
decided to invoke it in light of the latest pickets. "The main purpose of the interdict is to
protect the rights and safety of those who wish to access the university to
work or pursue their studies, whilst also allowing for the right to protest in
accordance with the conditions set out in the interdict," the university
stated. READ: 'I would like to correct the misunderstanding' -
Pandor gives university housing facts In terms of the interdict, picketers may not
interfere with, obstruct or disrupt university and academic activity; damage
property; contravene university rules or intimidate other students or staff. The university also announced that lectures would
not take place on Thursday due to the protests over student funding and
accommodation. A public lecture with Professor Evgeny Pashentsev,
a communications specialist, was also cancelled and staff were encouraged to
work off-campus. Essential services staff were to continue work if
possible.   The SA Students Congress (Sasco) said in a
statement that it was concerned about delays in finalising accommodation for
students, particularly women whose safety they are worried about, and for
funding to come through for students still waiting. "Sasco NMU has taken a decision to go on a
protest action after various consultation with the management on regards to
student registration, safety and security and accommodation crises," Sasco
stated. It said that first tests were approaching and there
were students who would be disadvantaged or miss the tests. Comment was not immediately available from the
university, but according to updates on its Twitter timeline, students were
encouraged to continue with their academic work and, where necessary, make
contact with their lecturers.   WATCH: Protesting students bring learning to a standstill at Wits The start of classes and daily administration operations were delayed at the University of the Witwatersrand on Thursday, after the student representative council (SRC) continued with protest action. WATCH: Pretoria West streets gridlocked as residents burn tyres and block roads Motorists and commuters have been warned to avoid several parts of Pretoria West on Thursday owing to protest action that started in the early hours of the morning. WATCH: Armed local farmer walks into demonstration in Greyton Western Cape police are probing an incident involving a man who was caught on camera on Monday, wielding a firearm during a demonstration in Greyton. WATCH: Burning tyres, logs and truck light up Howick sky KwaZulu-Natal police say the violent protest that forced the closure of the N3 in the vicinity of Howick in KZN Midlands on Thursday night was sparked by the arrest of community members who had allegedly invaded a private property in the area. WATCH: Anti-racism protest shuts down Bronkhorstspruit During a protest against racism in Bronkhorstspruit on Tuesday, where the entire central business district of the small town was shut down, the ANC Youth League in Tshwane have made a call expropriate land belonging to racist farmers. WATCH: Protesters to Ramaphosa: Give us the money you give to the buffalo The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) and other trade unions took to the streets in Cape Town on Thursday to protest against police brutality and low wages. WATCH: Police use stun grenades to disperse picketing MyCiti protesters Police have fired stun grenades at MyCiti bus drivers on strike in the Cape Town CBD. WATCH: 'We have nothing' - Vredenburg residents demand better service delivery On Tuesday, residents of Vredenburg in the Western Cape – who have had enough of living in what they described as a "dump" – took to the streets with sjamboks, sticks and knobkieries to demand better service delivery. WATCH: Community protests over housing in Mariannridge, Durban Mariannridge residents blockaded roads with burning tires and tree logs during a protest over housing in the area on Tuesday. WATCH.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.