Riaan Grobler File. (Duncan Alfreds) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Police attended to at least two incidents of taxi-related violence in Soweto on Tuesday morning. According to a report on 702, there was exchange of fire during a confrontation between taxi operators in Orlando West. A witness described to EWN that there were "a whole lot" of taxi drivers and taxi owners shooting at each other and at passers-by. READ What it's like using taxis in SA: 'Violent, aggressive and unsafe' WATCH: 45 children tumble out of packed Nelson Mandela Bay taxi Nelson Mandela Bay Metro Police arrested a taxi driver who severely overloaded a minibus taxi on Monday, February 18. While police spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubele could not confirm specifics about the incident to News24, he said police had been deployed to the area following the reports. In the second incident, Johannesburg Metro Police Department spokesperson Chief Superintendent Wayne Minnaar told News24 that police were monitoring an intersection in Dobsonville where taxi drivers are protesting over issues with Rea Vaya buses. "There is currently a protest by taxi associations at Koma Street and Elias Motsoaledi Road in Soweto. Motorists are advised to avoid that intersection." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: This 30-year-old family business is a school hotspot for Joburg families Gauteng schools open on Wednesday and parents are on the hunt for affordable school uniforms. WATCH: New footage has emerged following clash by 2 rival church groups in Joburg New video footage has emerged of the widely reported clash outside the International Pentecost Holiness Church in Zuurbekom, west of Johannesburg last Thursday. WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. 3 Days to Go: Johannesburg Premiere The 3 Days to Go Johannesburg premiere took place at Ster-Kinekor, Sandton City and audiences couldn't get enough of the stars on the red carpet. WATCH: Ramaphosa delivers Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture President Cyril Ramaphosa is delivering the 8th Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture.

The focus of the address is restorative justice in South Africa, 20 years after the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. The ever-changing graffiti canvas of Sao Paulo's Vila Madalena is a once in a lifetime experience The name says it all. It's the backdrop and set for insta-selfies and professional shoots alike. WATCH: Putting to Victory - Soweto's young golfers thrive against the odds Four years ago, Prince Modiba took on a journey that changed the lives of close to one hundred Soweto youths. The Andrew Mlangeni Golf Academy became the first of its kind in the area. It hasn't been easy but the young golfers strive against the odds WATCH: Freedom Park residents demonstrate outside Luthuli House Luthuli House in the Johannesburg CBD should brace itself for a "sleepover" if the Gauteng government doesn't address issues raised by landless residents of Freedom Park in the south of the city. Global Teen: Justin from Johannesburg 16-year-old Justin Bosman lives with his mother and two sisters in the Hillbrow district of Johannesburg. He's passionate about chess, and wants to become a lawyer or teacher. WATCH Hundreds of flamingo chicks admitted to SANCCOB for life-saving rehabilitation Over 2 000 abandoned and distressed flamingo chicks were jetted all over South Africa this week as part of a series of mercy flights from Kimberley after their habitat came under threat due to water problems. Plugging the labour gap at the World Robot Summit in Japan As robot-workers stacked packets of lattes and bento boxes on a mock convenience store shelf, their Japanese inventors were cheering them on at the World Robot Summit. Oprah Winfrey honours Mandela ahead of birth centenary concert US television celebrity Oprah Winfrey pays an emotional tribute to Nelson Mandela as she prepares to host a star-studded concert in Johannesburg to cap celebrations marking 100 years since his birth. The concert is the climax of a year of events c... 'The bigger plan is to become president,' says top matric performer Tumelo Mashigo, part of the class of 2017, hopes to one day be president.

The 18-year-old was the second best performing learner with special needs among the most recent matriculants and hopes to make the world a better place one day. WATCH: Artist Ayanda Mabulu arrested over 'blame it on the boers' painting Controversial artist Ayanda Mabulu, 37, was arrested outside the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) on Wednesday, following a display of his artwork stating, "blame it on the boers". WATCH: Joburg security guard wounded in shootout with armed robbery suspects A security guard was shot and wounded as he investigated a suspected business robbery on the corner of Prichard and Mooi Streets in Johannesburg last Saturday afternoon. WATCH: 'ANC is killing us' - DA unveils billboard listing names of Marikana, Life Esidimeni victims DA leaders and supporters marched on Wednesday to unveil a new giant billboard in Johannesburg. Was Mandela a hero or a 'sell-out'? The BBC asked young South Africans for their views on anti-apartheid icon Nelson Mandela. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma's culpable homicide trial postponed to March The culpable homicide case against Duduzane Zuma was postponed to March 26 in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday. WATCH: Flames engulf Kempton Park bus fleet Quick-acting firefighters in the east of Johannesburg were able to extinguish a blaze that engulfed a fleet of parked vehicles, late last week. Kwesta, Cassper Nyovest and Nasty C among this celeb barber's famous clientele Celebrity barber Sheldon Tatchell is well-known for cutting the hair of Johannesburg's elite and now The Legends Barbershop will be setting up shop in Cape Town. Would you spend $2000 on trainers? Young South Africans are buying, selling and trading shoes at the Sneaker Exchange. It's the latest craze to hit Johannesburg, and the place to upgrade your kickz. Miley Cyrus is in Cape Town, South Africa Miley Cyrus was spotted shopping in Cape Town, South Africa. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. Soweto Gospel Choir riding high after Grammy win When the Soweto Gospel Choir was named as winner of the Grammy for Best World Music Album, it earned the ensemble a place in the music history books. The South African choir shares the inspiration behind their album "Freedom", which earned them th... WATCH: Chinese national shot and wounded, cash stolen in Johannesburg A Chinese national was shot and wounded and cash stolen out of his vehicle when several armed robbers pounced on his car south of Johannesburg yesterday. WATCH: Celebs walk the red carpet at Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 Local and international celebrities took to the red carpet at the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100. WATCH: President Cyril Ramaphosa unveils Nelson Mandela statue at UN headquarters President Cyril Ramaphosa has unveiled a life-sized statue of late president Nelson Mandela at the United Nations (UN) headquarters in New York, as South Africa celebrates Heritage Day on Monday. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. Local celebs shine on SA Fashion Week red carpet Local celebs came dressed in the finest fashions as they stepped onto the red carpet at the Cruz Vodka SA Fashion Week launch party in Johannesburg. WATCH: No injuries or fatalities in South African factory fire Johannesburg emergency services spent hours trying to contain a fire that broke out in a glue and paper factory in Kya Sands, Johannesburg, on Wednesday morning. Johannesburg's grandest old colonial club seeks new image With its imposing columned facade, hunting trophies and oil portraits, the Rand Club in Johannesburg's city centre is a relic of South Africa's colonial and apartheid past. But Alicia Thompson, a black woman born in Johannesburg, is seeking to rep... WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. Grave dilemma: S.African cities short of cemetery space In Johannesburg, land is a hot topic, even for the dead. Population growth, migration to urban areas and an influx of foreigners has put huge pressure on land in urban areas. Adding to the problem is a cultural resistance to the practice of cremat... WATCH: Shady character steals designer sunglasses A thief with sticky fingers was able to steal two pairs of designer sunglasses from an optical store in Johannesburg last Friday. South African archaeologists find "lost city" using laser technology Researchers used cutting edge laser technology to recreate an ancient city that existed near Johannesburg from the 15th century until about 200 years ago. WATCH: Pedestrian mowed down by taxi driving in the wrong lane A taxi driving on the wrong side of the road knocked over a pedestrian in morning traffic in Sharonlea, Johannesburg on Monday. WATCH: New footage shows armed men fleeing after Joburg M1 shootout New footage has emerged giving further insight into the shooting on Johannesburg's M1 on Monday. WATCH: Firefighters run Soweto Marathon in 18kg gear to honour fallen colleagues Three Johannesburg firefighters ran the Old Mutual Soweto Marathon on Sunday in bunker gear, to commemorate their fallen colleagues. WATCH: Door of Hope: A new beginning for abandoned babies The Door of Hope organisation has taken care of more than 1500 children since it was established in 1999.

One of the ways they take in children is through the "baby bin" - a hole in the wall were parents can leave their unwanted babies. WATCH: Lehae land invaders vow to stay Residents of Lehae, south of Johannesburg, who invaded vacant RDP houses said they will not be shaken after the police evicted them and took the doors of their now homes. WATCH: House robbers make off with goods, cash worth R200 000 A family locked themselves in a room while a gang of house robbers in Johannesburg helped themselves to goods valued at R200 000 in a matter of minutes. Khumbula - Dandyness with a political message In South Africa a collective of fashion-forward dandies are challenging stereotypes about life in the country's townships. The group, called Khumbala, hails from Alexandra in Johannesburg. WATCH: Truck set alight during protest in Isando A truck was set alight allegedly by protesting workers in the plastics sector in Isando, east of Johannesburg on Thursday. WATCH: 'Unruly' passenger forcibly removed from Kulula flight A passenger was forcibly removed from a Kulula flight bound for Johannesburg from Durban on Sunday night. WATCH: 'Total Shutdown Gauteng' hands over letter of demand at JSE Members of the Total Shutdown Gauteng grouping marched on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) on Tuesday, demanding a full audit of coloured representation in listed businesses and a commitment to rectifying the lack of coloured representivity. Michael B Jordan walks the red carpet at Creed 2 screening in South Africa Sandton City, Johannesburg was filled with fans on Saturday night as Creed 2 star Michael B Jordan hit the red carpet to promote the upcoming movie. WATCH | JHB crime stats: Drunk driving remains the city's most frequently recorded offence Drunk driving remains the highest offence in Johannesburg, according to the metro police latest statistics.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.