Jan Gerber Inside the ANC's Bosasa election war room Bosasa sponsored these war rooms for the past three elections for the ANC, at an estimated cost of R2-million per election. The Electoral Commission of South Africa will investigate the ANC's alleged Bosasa-funded elections "war rooms", the body confirmed in a letter to DA leader Mmusi Maimane.This after the DA laid a complaint, as it believes the allegation that Bosasa paid up to R6 million for the "war rooms" constitutes a breach of the Electoral Code of Conduct."No registered party or candidate may abuse a position of power, privilege or influence, including parental, patriarchal, traditional or employment authority to influence the conduct or outcome of an election," the code states.Last month, News24 exposed how Bosasa  - now known as African Global Operations - paid more than R6 million for ANC "war rooms" at their Krugersdorp headquarters ahead of the 2011, 2014 and 2016 elections, without the ANC footing any of the bills.ANC treasurer general at the time Zweli Mkhize confirmed that the party accepted donations from Bosasa "directly or in kind".After these revelations, the DA laid their charge."The fact is this R6 million benefit the ANC received from Bosasa is dirty money. It is high time that the ANC pays back every cent of the money it has received from Bosasa," Maimane said in a statement."This shamelessly corrupt relationship between the ANC and Bosasa has sought to interfere with electoral outcomes. The IEC needs to assure South African voters that these ANC-Bosasa dirty tricks will not play out in the 58 days before an Election Day that the ANC is at a real risk of losing." Dumelang. I can confirm today that the IEC has agreed to investigate the ANC’s #Bosasa-funded election ‘war rooms’, following the @Our_DA complaint lodged late last month. I trust the IEC will investigate without fear or favour, and await the outcome of such investigation. pic.twitter.com/bj0YcwqScR Tsile Maswanganyi from the commission's communications department confirmed that they have received the DA's complaint and that the matter was referred to the Directorate of Electoral Offences for investigation."A recommendation will be made to the Chief Electoral Officer after the investigation has been concluded on whether the ANC has transgressed the Electoral Code of Conduct," Maswanganyi said.A video clip News24 obtained of the "war room" for the 2014 national election shows a massive screen wall displaying a live map of the election results, TV screens and around 30 cubicles, each with a computer and a telephone.According to the sources' breakdown of costs, the video wall cost Bosasa in excess of R400 000, the brand new computers and software licensing cost around R450 000 for 32 new PCs and Bosasa picked up the tab for the phone bills, roughly R14 000 a week for four weeks, News24 reported. Costs also included R210 000 for software development, meals and special refreshments daily for more than 70 volunteers at a cost of roughly R19 000 a day or R570 000 a month, special security additions to secure the offices, as well as payment for the volunteers, which amounted to around R700 000.  WATCH: SARS swoops on Bosasa A team of South African Revenue Service officials arrived at Bosasa's head office shortly after noon on Friday to execute a search and seizure warrant. PODCAST: ANC and the polls – are the party's leaders even bothered with the upcoming elections? This week on POLOTIKI, yet another ANC leader found himself in the middle of sexual assault claims, EFF leader Julius Malema takes the land question to Newcastle and we peel off another layer of the relationship between the ruling party and Bosasa. WATCH: Mbalula willing to testify at #StateCaptureInquiry Fikile Mbalula on Thursday said he is ready to testify at the state capture inquiry. PODCAST: The depressing budget, Gavin Watson in action... and Eskom AUDIO: This week on POLOTIKI, we had the budget speech and, yes, it was depressing. Video emerged of Bosasa boss Gavin Watson belittling staff, and more explosive testimony at the commission of inquiry into state capture with the spotlight on Eskom. WATCH: Bosasa liquidator takes charge of documents, servers Bosasa liquidator Cloete Murray on Friday took charge at the company's headquarters in Krugersdorp following their voluntary liquidation. WATCH: Bosasa staff locked out by liquidators Bosasa staff locked out by liquidators WATCH: Gavin Watson belittles Bosasa staff, talks of his tender 'networks' Gavin Watson,, CEO of Bosasa, tackles staff over mistakes in their work submitting tenders. He mentions one contract worth R800-million which was nearly lost due to such a mistake. The video was taken during a Bosasa 'Imbizo', at Silverstar Casino. ANALYSIS: In a way this is the end of Bosasa, says Adriaan Basson News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and Opinions Editor Alet Janse van Rensburg unpack the latest developments in the Bosasa scandal, after the company announced it was under voluntary liquidation. Watch. Whistleblowers should still come forward says Hawks after Bosasa arrests ormer Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi, former correctional services CFO Patrick Gillingham, and Bosasa official Andries van Tonder, on Wednesday briefly appeared in the dock at the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court. WATCH: Agrizzi, van Tonder and Gillingham appear in dock The Hawks on Wednesday arrested six suspects on allegations of corruption, money laundering and fraud relating to Bosasa. A warrant of arrest has been issued for a seventh suspect.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.