Pelane Phakgadi One of the buildings Joburg Mayor Herman Mashaba wants 'expropriated' for development. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba has instructed his officials to probe 60 buildings for safety adherence and if they are found to be in the red, they will be expropriated for development and quality accommodation "for some of our poorest residents". In his mission to assist with by-law enforcement, Mashaba visited six of the buildings in Brixton and Westdene. They were dilapidated and were believed to have been hijacked. "Without fail, the six properties identified today, including the infamous 10A in Westdene, appear to have all been hijacked, with the slum lords benefiting from residents living in inhumane conditions within the properties", said Mashaba. "One of the properties has issues dating back to 2009 and it has been continually raided since, with various citations being directed to the owner," continued Mashaba. READ: Invitation to fellow mayors of Gauteng to join clean-up campaign Mashaba understands that three of the properties belong to one man. "It is alleged that he owns 60 other properties within the city which are in a similar condition and cumulatively, the properties forming part of today's operation are said to owe the City in excess of R5m," Mashaba said. #BuyaMthetho We're now at No 62 Earls Avenue and Beatrice Street (Erf No 630 Windsor East), The Court  Yard. Another run down property where people live and the conditions are appalling
^GZ pic.twitter.com/gL8DlQMRgm  The mayor added that he requested that the City to conduct an audit of people living in the identified properties. "It is vital that we profile occupants living in these buildings and ensure that support is provided to those most in need as it is essential that we bring back the rule of law in our city and take it back from the criminal elements, such as slum landlords who take advantage of desperate people and house them under deplorable conditions."   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.