Staff Reporter Police. (Photo: Getty/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 16-year-old Mondeor High school pupil has died after being stabbed outside the school, which is south of Johannesburg. "ER24 paramedics arrived on the scene at 08:14 to find
another service assessing the boy. Assessments showed that the patient had
sustained a stab wound to his chest and showed no signs of life", said ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring. He said CPR and treatment were immediately initiated to try revive the patient. "Unfortunately, after some time, no vital signs returned,
and he was declared dead by another service," Meiring said. Details of the incident, which happened on Wednesday morning, are sketchy. Local authorities are on the scene to investigate. Gauteng education spokesperson Steve Mabona said that MEC Panyaza Lesufi is on his way to the scene. Breaking News: We just received news that a learner was stabbed and died on the scene, around Mondeor High School. MEC @Lesufi is currently on his way there. More details will be shared in due course. @Steve_Mabona ?? This is a developing story. More to follow. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Paarl Boys' students appear to support staffers accused of using corporal punishment Being hit against the head for not greeting. The "five-star treatment" on your back when your homework isn't done. Spanking with a cricket bat - all in the name of "discipline". WATCH: Brick slinging man attacks cops An Mpumalanga man is under police guard in hospital after being shot and injured by police at a school. WATCH: Grief, anger as Durban community mourns teenagers killed by taxi Grief-stricken Newlands East residents became enraged on Wednesday after a minibus taxi ran into four secondary school pupils in Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, killing three. WATCH: Support for Sans Souci teacher following court appearance The teacher charged with the assault of a Sans Souci Girls High School pupil, as well as the teenager she slapped, made their first appearances in the Wynberg Magistrate's Court on Wednesday. WATCH: State-of-the-art sports ground opens in Philippi FC Bayern captain Philipp Lahm, opened sports ground last Saturday. WATCH: Holy Cross primary in Cape Town on fire Firefighters were called out to Holy Cross RC Primary School in the Cape Town CBD after plumes of smoke were seen emanating from the premises. WATCH: Hundreds gather for emotional night vigil at Hoërskool Driehoek Hundreds of people gathered at Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark for an emotional night vigil, after a concrete slab collapsed at the school, killing three children and seriously injuring 25 others.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.