Tshidi Madia Tshwane municipal manager Moeketsi Mosola. (File photo, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories City of Tshwane mayoral spokesperson Samkelo Mgobozi has been fired with immediate effect. Mgobozi confirmed his axing to News24 on Monday, saying he was informed of the decision last week through a letter sent to him by municipal manager Moeketsi Mosola. In the letter, which News24 has seen, Mosola tells the former mayoral spokesperson that there was no other "option", as his appointment was at odds with legislation and a collective agreement. "In essence, the Auditor-General (AG) has found that your appointment was irregular and that the payment of your salary constitutes irregular expenditure," explained Mosola to Mgobozi. Mgobozi's appointment had previously been flagged as one of at least three questionable ones made by former Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga, who argued that there was nothing wrong with the selections as they were political appointments. The former spokesperson also believed he was targeted in an ongoing purge by Mosola of people who once worked with Msimanga. "Effectively this is a continued fight against the former mayor," remarked Mgobozi when called for comment. The former spokesperson said he had not seen the AG’s report and would ask to be given a copy to see how the findings related to his position. Mosola and Msimanga had been at odds over the irregularly appointed multibillion-rand GladAfrica contract, with the latter failing to suspend the municipal manager several times in the city’s council. READ: Msimanga to ask Tshwane council to suspend city manager again as new allegations emerge Current Tshwane Mayor Stevens Mokgalapa, who took over the reins from Msimanga in February, has sided with the municipal manager in the matter. "An audit was done to say who in my office has what credentials, and it was found his did not meet those required for the job, so his appointment was irregular," said Mokgalapa. He dismissed Mgobozi’s theory of a "purge". "There’s no greater purge, you reported on this issue … I've just dealt with an irregular contract. I cannot have irregular appointments in my office," he said. Last week Mokgalapa terminated the City’s contract with GladAfrica, following months of calls to do so from members of the opposition. MUST READ: GladAfrica: Tshwane council approves immediate termination of controversial contract Mosola, who fought attempts to be removed by Msimanga at every turn, insisting the tender was regular, eventually conceded to it being irregular following the AG’s findings on the issue. The AG's report showed that R317m already paid to the built environment consultancy firm in a R12bn tender was not above board. Meanwhile, Mgobozi has already started exploring the legal route. He has written to Mosola’s office through his lawyer, requesting reasons for his dismissal. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Tshwane mayor visits Pretoria train crash victims' families Tshwane Metro Mayor, Solly Msimanga, visited two families of the deceased from last week's Mountain View train accident.
Msimanga expressed his condolences and offered support with the funeral arrangements. WATCH: Car-free zones piloted in Pretoria as part of Transport Month The City of Tshwane has created a temporary Car-Free Zone in the heart of Hatfield in Pretoria on Friday. WATCH: The church is bigger than Bushiri - ECG Church spokesperson Prophet Bushiri's Enlightened Christian Gathering church briefed the media on events following a deadly stampede at the church on December 28, 2018. WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: Anti-racism protest shuts down Bronkhorstspruit During a protest against racism in Bronkhorstspruit on Tuesday, where the entire central business district of the small town was shut down, the ANC Youth League in Tshwane have made a call expropriate land belonging to racist farmers. WATCH: 'Edna Molewa's life was one of sacrifice, selflessness and service'  - Cyril Ramaphosa An official funeral service for the late Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa was held in Pretoria on Saturday.

President Cyril Ramaphosa delivered the eulogy at the Tshwane Events Centre. Outa, ANCGP and civil society groups march to union buildings against etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. Thousands marched through the streets of Tshwane on Friday morning. WATCH: Two police officers charged with murder of TUT student granted bail Two police officers were granted bail at the Soshanguve Magistrates Court on Tuesday. WATCH Police on the hunt for Tshwane CBD muggers.mp4 Video footage has surfaced of a group of men mugging a woman in the Tshwane CBD. Her terrified screams echo through the busy street. The ordeal is over in mere seconds. WATCH: TUT students march to the police ministry over student death Chaos erupted on Wednesday as around 300 students marched through the Pretoria CBD protesting over the death of a student who was allegedly shot by police last week.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.