Riaan Grobler WATCH: 'My f*k, Marelize...' - reaction to girl riding bike into rugby posts has people in stitches A video of Namibian Marelize Horn, 19, crashing her bicycle into rugby poles has been going viral, not so much because of her lack of co-ordination, but mostly owing to the reaction of her mother. The woman who uttered the phrase "My fok, Marelize" says she thought she had stopped recording before she said the now-famous words. She also never expected such an overwhelming reaction to a video she took of her daughter riding a bicycle into a rugby post. Heidi Horn, mother of Marelize Horn, 19, was filming her daughter on Saturday while she rode a bicycle on the rugby field at Affies Park in Windhoek. Marelize rides in a circular motion and then heads straight for the rugby posts, before crashing straight into them. Heidi then exclaims in Afrikaans: "My fok, Marelize...," before starting to walk toward her daughter. Marelize told News24 on Friday: "My mum Heidi says: 'My fok, Marelize' to me almost every day! I fall off things, walk into things - it's insane how clumsy I am." But mom Heidi told News24 she didn't even realise that it was considered her catchphrase. "I can't imagine that I say that so often, but then, you don't always realise when you say something often." READ: 'My f*k, Marelize...' - reaction to girl riding bike into rugby posts has people in stitches So, what went through Heidi's mind when she saw her daughter crashing the bike? "My fok, Marelize!" Heidi says, laughing heartily. 'Sometimes I just have no filter at all' "Sometimes I just have no filter at all! I just blurt out what's on my mind…" According to Marelize, she is still learning to ride the bicycle. "I know this sounds strange, but I am finally learning to ride the bicycle at the age of 19," she told News24. She says she and Heidi chose to ride on the sports grounds because, if she fell, she would not hurt herself too badly on the lush lawn.  Marelize Horn. (Supplied) "My mom made a video of me riding so that we could watch it afterward to pick up on any mistakes that I made." She was riding along nicely, until she started to approach the rugby poles. "I wanted to turn right, but the bike just kept going to the left. I had no control over the thing. I then crashed into the pole." Heidi says she was filming the whole thing on her cellphone, thinking: "She's got this." "But the next thing I see is, boom! There she goes! "I remember thinking, 'What the hell? You were riding so well just then?'" ALSO READ: 'My f*k, Marelize' talks to us: 'I fall down every day' Heidi said she was not one of those mothers who made a fuss when her children got hurt. "I was more concerned about the bicycle!" Heidi joked. 'She can be quite clumsy' Heidi told News24 that Marelize was indeed clumsy, as she claimed. "One would tell her to turn left, for example, and then she would get confused about what direction left is. Then she'd turn right and we would have to turn back again. Or she would drop things for no apparent reason. She can be quite clumsy," Heidi says, laughing. "So it didn't surprise me when Marelize rode her bike into the rugby posts." Like Marelize, Heidi was completely taken by surprise by the video going viral. "I thought, okay, maybe because [the crash] is funny. But I never thought it would be because of my reaction. In fact, I thought I had already stopped recording before I said what I said." Heidi says the family has been inundated with messages from across the globe. "I never thought something could blow up like this has." #MyFokMarelize ?? pic.twitter.com/ZEJ6qObUDT  WATCH: Man uses broken wiper blades to manually wipe windscreen A man who opted to manually wipe his windscreen, using his white Fiat Uno's broken wiper blade, has been the source of much amusement online. WATCH: #Resurrection challenge - South Africans mock 'resurrection miracle' pastor South Africans mock 'resurrection' pastor. WATCH: 'That's why Julius must take the land' - woman's Clicks rant goes viral Video footage of a woman verbally attacking a fellow customer at a Clicks pharmacy in Durban has been widely circulated on social media. Charcoal challenge takes Facebook by storm posing the question: 'is it racist?' A bizarre new social media challenge that sees participants turning their heads black by inverting a bag of charcoal over their heads, has raised eyebrows online. WATCH: SAPS escort pupils to matric farewell in Nyala Making an entrance is an extra bonus point when making a statement at a matric farewell. One couple in particular, turned heads when they rocked up in a police Nyala van escorted by police officers at their farewell in Newcastle over the weekend. WATCH: 'It's me, former president Jacob Zuma' - Zuma joins social media Former president Jacob Zuma says he has decided to "move with times" and join various social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. WATCH: Stop what you are doing - Mboro to 'resurrection' pastor The leader of the Incredible Happenings church, Paseka "Mboro" Motsoeneng, known simply as "Prophet Mboro", told journalists he "cannot allow" pastor Alph Lukau to bring Christianity into disrepute after an apparently staged resurrection. WATCH: Masturbating Mr D driver dismissed after video goes viral Masturbating Mr D driver dismissed after video goes viral. WATCH: High speed N1 Cape Town crash leaves BMW driver critical Video of a BMW crashing into a barrier on the N1 in Cape Town and spinning out of control has gone viral online. WATCH: Video of Durban businessman chastising white beggar goes viral A video of a Durban businessman refusing to give a white beggar R2 because "my forefathers will kill me", has gone viral on social media.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.