Tshidi Madia WATCH: Malema condemns rape threats after EFF posts Karima Brown's number Speaking after his birthday celebrations in Ekhuruleni, EFF leader Julius Malema on Tuesday condemned rape being used as a threat. Karima Brown (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The EFF remains unrepentant in its stance on veteran journalist Karima Brown, in the wake of condemnation from fellow journalists and the South African National Editors' Forum (Sanef). Brown seemingly posted an editorial brief in an EFF media WhatsApp group by mistake on Tuesday after the party posted an invitation to an EFF "Breakfast With The Elderly" function, scheduled for Wednesday. Brown responded: "Keep an eye out for this. Who are these elders. Are they all male and how are they chosen. Keep watching brief." She later deleted the message. EFF leader Julius Malema later tweeted a screenshot of the message, which included Brown's cellphone number, saying: "Karima Brown is sending moles to our breakfast with the elders tomorrow, she incidentally sends the message to the @EFFSouthAfrica media WhatsApp group and deleted it immediately." WATCH: We are not convinced Karima Brown works for ENCA - Malema Speaking after his birthday celebrations in Ekhuruleni, EFF leader Julius Malema on Tuesday responded to questions regarding the party's public spat with journalist Karima Brown. On Wednesday, Malema - speaking to journalists after meeting and celebrating his 38th birthday with the elderly in Ekurhuleni - defended his decision to post the message on Twitter. The eNCA political commentator and Talk Radio 702 show host had earlier complained that she had received numerous threats since Malema and EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi posted her number on social media, with some threatening to rape or even kill her. READ: Sanef condemns EFF after Malema's tweet results in insults and rape threats against veteran journalist Karima Brown 'I think she is a state agent' But when Malema was quizzed on Wednesday, he said Brown had no privileges, instead questioning the meaning of her WhatsApp post, which looked like editorial notes. "She cannot claim privilege of journalist. We cannot expose the number of an editor, or sub-editor, an assignment editor or even a journalist," said Malema. "What was she doing? That sounded like an intelligence SMS, where people are given an assignment to come and spy on the gogos," said Malema in refefence to the elderly women who attended the event. He said eNCA had called the EFF over the matter, but couldn’t account for her role at the television station. "We asked if is she an editor? No. A sub-editor? No. An assignment editor? No. So, what was she doing?," he asked. "eNCA hasn’t taken responsibility for her, therefore, she’s working for someone other than eNCA," Malema insisted. The EFF commander-in-chief said they needed to be told what Brown’s position was, because they had nothing on which to hold her accountable to. "How do you hold an underground editor accountable," he asked. I think she's a state agent, I think she's an operative, I think she is intelligence", Malema added. 'No individual should be threatened with rape' Malema also distanced his party members from the insults and threats that Brown had received, saying in an era of "fake news" anyone could hide behind an "avatar" on social media. "No member of the EFF has attacked her, worse through the mandate of an EFF," he said. He said he doubted it was EFF members who were contacting Brown. "No individual should be threatened with rape. Those who do that should be thrown in prison and locked up for a very long time." He then went on to lambaste those who viewed his party’s supporters as being incapable of thinking. "This narrative of trying to create an impression that EFF people are mental hospital patients is wrong," he said. "I think they (EFF supporters) are well upstairs and can differentiate between wrong and right. They will never do anything to harm our democracy." When asked if he had called Brown to discuss his concerns, Malema said he had not, because "she would tell me off". This is not the first clash between the EFF and Brown. She has previously laid charges with police against a party member after receiving threatening messages. READ: Political analyst Karima Brown lays charges against EFF member over threatening message   WATCH: Karima Brown is not a journalist - Malema Speaking after his birthday celebrations in Ekhuruleni, EFF leader Julius Malema on Tuesday responded to questions regarding the party releasing the phone number of journalist Karima Brown. WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. WATCH: Singing in chamber as resolution that Constitution be amended is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. WATCH: Pravin will destroy Eskom and SAA in order to privatise them - EFF The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) staged a picket outside the State Capture Inquiry on Monday calling for the removal of Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Public Enterprises. WATCH: 'Pay back the money' - MP's jeer at EFF's Floyd Shivambu in ironic turn of events EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu found himself on the receiving end of MP's jeering in Parliament on Tuesday, when he was heckled to "pay back the money" during a debate on the VBS Mutual Bank scandal. WATCH: Malema lays charges against Pravin Gordhan EFF leader Julius Malema opened a case of money laundering and corruption against Public Enterprises minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday. WATCH: 'EFF is the only alternative' - supporter at manifesto launch Hundreds have filled Giant Stadium in Shoshanguve, north of Pretoria ahead of the Economic Freedom Fighters manifesto launch. WATCH: 'Our land and jobs now!' - EFF launches election manifesto Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema on Saturday launched the party's election manifesto at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve. WATCH LIVE: Julius Malema addresses the crowd outside #StateCaptureInquiry EFF leader Julius Malema addressed the crowd outside the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture where Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan was testifying. WATCH: EFF supporters storm Vodacom stores Self-declared members and supporters of the EFF, many in EFF T-shirts, attacked at least two Vodacom stores over the weekend. WATCH: 'VBS looters, pay back the money' - DA, EFF in war of words President Cyril Ramaphosa's last oral reply for the year came to an abrupt halt when the DA and EFF exchanged insults in Parliament. Watch. 'Let all land belong to the state' The radical EFF opposition party has called for expropriation of land without compensation to redress the imbalance in land distribution in South Africa. S.Africa's EFF party supporters arrive ahead of Manifesto launch Supporters of South Africa's far-left Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) arrive at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve, Pretoria, ahead of the party's manifesto launch. WATCH: EFF demonstrates for second day at #StateCaptureInquiry Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday continued with his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, as the EFF demonstrated outside for a second day in a row. WATCH: EFF in heated brawl at East London Hungry Lion franchise Police have opened a case of assault following a scuffle between members of the Economic Freedom Fighters and staff at a Hungry Lion outlet in East London.

The incident took place on Friday. WATCH: Julius Malema on changing the constitution regarding land expropriation On 13 November in parliament, during the first day of the Joint Constitutional Review Committee deliberating a draft report on the possible review of Section 25 of the Constitution to allow expropriation of land without compensation. WATCH: 'Pravin lied to our people' – EFF While Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg on Monday, the EFF made its presence known, protesting outside the venue.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.