Micah Reddy Gauteng’s ANC MEC for sport, arts, culture and recreation, Faith Mazibuko. (Supplied, Gallo images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories During election season there is a temptation for parties to try tailor service delivery to win favour.Now, in a newly emerged audio recording, Gauteng’s ANC MEC for sport, arts, culture and recreation, Faith Mazibuko, can be heard pressuring staff to deliver sporting facilities ahead of elections, with seemingly little regard for tender processes and legal prescripts. In the recording a furious-sounding Mazibuko demands that planned "combi courts" (used for a combination of sporting activities) be rolled out before elections because, she says, referring to one such facility, "we want to use it to campaign and win elections". Her anger is sparked when her staff point out that there might be a rollover on the combi courts to the next financial year. One staffer says in the recording that the department has explored ways of expediting the combi courts but that due process may delay implementation. "We’ve looked at this issue up, down, around, through and over," says the staffer, who then points out that there is no valid contract in place with the implementing agent and that they cannot find a legal mechanism to roll them out. However an irate Mazibuko will have none of it and refuses to listen to her staff’s words of caution. "I want those combi courts! How you do that, if it means you go and construct them with your hands, you better do it! No rollover of that money of combi courts!"When the staffer attempts to lay out the procurement process, she is abruptly cut off by the MEC, who yells, "It doesn’t matter! I don’t want stories, I want combi courts." READ: BULLETPROOF: Will the ANC dodge another bullet on election day? The MEC’s office said in response to questions: "The meeting referred to in your enquiry was a confidential meeting between the MEC and executive staff members of the department of which the MEC respects confidentiality thereof."Her office appeared to deny that any undue pressure was brought to bear on staff."At no stage in any meeting with her staff did the MEC give unlawful instructions except to stress the importance of meeting targets and fulfilling promises made to communities as part of service delivery and improving the lives of the people of Gauteng."After threatening to force senior staffers to resign, the MEC’s tirade then becomes racially charged as she chastises two senior staffers – an Indian woman and a white woman – for speaking back at her. "That’s why some departments, they don’t want to see a white woman or any Indian woman! It’s not about racism, it’s because you like talking English!"Elections are costly, and as parties scramble for resources there’s added incentive for corruption and tender rigging to fund party political campaigns. All the more so in the absence of laws ensuring funding transparency. (The new party funding law is not likely to come into effect before elections in May.) The amaBhungane Centre for Investigative Journalism, an independent non-profit, produced this story. Like it? Be an amaB Supporter to help us do more. Sign up for our newsletter and WhatsApp alerts to get more.  WATCH: Magashule defends controversial candidates on ANC lists ANC Secretary General Ace Magashule has defended the inclusion of Bathabile Dlamini, Nomvula Monkonyana and Malusi Gigabaha on the party's lists, despite being implicated in state capture. WATCH: Ramaphosa takes election campaign to Park Station President Cyril Ramaphosa, and Gauteng ANC officials, took to train stations across the province to encourage commuters to vote for the party in the upcoming national elections. Inside the ANC's Bosasa election war room Bosasa sponsored these war rooms for the past three elections for the ANC, at an estimated cost of R2-million per election. PODCAST: ANC and the polls – are the party's leaders even bothered with the upcoming elections? This week on POLOTIKI, yet another ANC leader found himself in the middle of sexual assault claims, EFF leader Julius Malema takes the land question to Newcastle and we peel off another layer of the relationship between the ruling party and Bosasa. WATCH: ANC paints Joburg yellow demanding service delivery Hundreds of ANC members from greater Joburg – in collaboration with alliance partners Sanco, SACP and Cosatu – are marching to the offices of Mayor Herman Mashaba, Premier David Makhura and Eskom to hand over memorandums demanding service delivery Jesse Duarte exposes sexual harassment as endemic at Luthuli House. ANC deputy secretary general Jesse Duarte has exposed how sexual harassment is endemic at Luthuli House. WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. WATCH: 'We are not fighting the ANC' - Mahumapelo ahead of court appearance Former ANC North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo addresses supporters before fighting the NEC decision to disband his PEC at the South Gauteng High Court. WATCH: Damage to 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard a criminal act – DA The DA has called the damage inflicted on its newly unveiled 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, a 'criminal act'. WATCH: Mbalula willing to testify at #StateCaptureInquiry Fikile Mbalula on Thursday said he is ready to testify at the state capture inquiry. 'That's hogwash!'- Pule Mabe on accusations of intimate relationship with former PA ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe, who is currently on leave from that role pending the outcome of the inquiry of sexual harassment claims, strongly denied claims that he and his former assistant had an intimate relationship of sorts in the past. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). WATCH: Political parties say they are ready for the coming elections Political parties say that they are ready for the coming elections. Speaking to News24 at the IEC elections launch at the Gallagher Convention Centre, the leaders also urged those eligible to vote to go register on January 26 and 27. PODCAST: The fiery, smart, sharp and difficult Julius Malema AUDIO: This week on POLOTIKI, we're days away from South Africa's sixth national elections, but is the country excited? And EFF leader Julius Malema is in the headlines, is this a campaign tactic? WATCH: 10 million eligible voters are unregistered - IEC Almost 10 million South Africans who are eligible to vote are not registered, the Independent Electoral Commission said on Wednesday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.