Sarah Evans WATCH: Malema condemns rape threats after EFF posts Karima Brown's number Speaking after his birthday celebrations in Ekhuruleni, EFF leader Julius Malema on Tuesday condemned rape being used as a threat. Primedia Broadcasting, owner of Talk Radio 702, has
expressed outrage at the "vicious personal attacks" on veteran
journalist Karima Brown by EFF supporters. This follows rape and other threats against Brown,
allegedly by EFF supporters, as a result of a message she posted on the EFF's
WhatsApp group. Brown mistakenly posted an editorial brief meant for
journalists, regarding a story about the EFF's "Breakfast with the
elderly" function. She wrote, "Keep an eye out for this. Who are
these elders. Are they all male and how are they chosen. Keep watching brief
(sic)." In response, EFF leader Julius Malema tweeted a
screenshot of her message with her cellphone number, News24 reported. WATCH: We are not convinced Karima Brown works for ENCA - Malema Speaking after his birthday celebrations in Ekhuruleni, EFF leader Julius Malema on Tuesday responded to questions regarding the party's public spat with journalist Karima Brown. He tweeted, "Karima Brown is sending moles to
our breakfast with the elders tomorrow, she incidentally sends the message to
the @EFFSouthAfrica media WhatsApp group
and deleted it immediately." Twitter removed the thread on Wednesday night, with
the message: "This Tweet is no longer available as it violated the Twitter
rules." EFF supporters apparently attacked her, calling her
a "whore" and "a bitch" and threatening her with rape. This followed a statement by the EFF condemning
Brown and calling her an ANC operative.  EFF Statement on Karima Brown. pic.twitter.com/6PsZ9cxdM0  Malema later said that no one should be threatened
with rape, but has refused to back down on his comments about Brown.  #EFF Malema on #Brown: no individual should be threatened with rape, those who do that should be thrown in prison and locked up for a very long time. Says the country has a serious problem with violence and rape... unacceptable @TeamNews24  On Wednesday, the South African National Editors
Forum (Sanef) condemned the EFF's attacks on Brown and said this was not the
first time that women had been attacked by the party's supporters, News24 reported. "If the EFF leadership has evidence and/or
concerns about Brown or any other member of the media they must deal with this
in the correct forum including the Broadcasting Complaints Commission for Radio
and Television and online or the Press Ombudsman/Council for Print and Online,"
Sanef said. "From a Sanef position there is empirical
evidence to show that when senior party leaders and politicians muzzle
journalists, their supporters follow in their footsteps." Sanef has approached the Equality Court in its efforts
to stop the EFF's attacks on journalists, especially women. 'Appalled' In a statement on Wednesday, Primedia also
condemned the EFF's attacks on Brown. Brown hosts The Karima Brown Show on
702. The station is owned by Primedia. "Primedia Broadcasting is appalled at the
vicious personal attacks against one of its presenters, Karima Brown. 702 has
always stood for open debate and the contestation of ideas. We fiercely guard
and protect our presenters' and callers' right to freedom of expression as protected
in the Constitution and as a signatory to the Broadcasting Complaints
Commission of South Africa's (BCCSA) code of Conduct. It is something that we,
as 702, will defend. "The spate of recent attacks on media
professionals is not only detestable, it also places undue pressure on those
working in the media," the company said in a statement. It added that, the "threats" were being
viewed "in a serious light", especially in the "highly charged
environment ahead of the forthcoming elections". "These threats are being viewed in a serious
light as well as being regarded as inflammatory and as a threat to Karima's
safety." COO of Primedia Broadcasting Karl Gostner said: "We
appeal for the threats against Karima to stop. It inhibits her and other
journalists from doing their work. Attacks of this nature, are a threat to our
democratic space."  WATCH: Karima Brown is not a journalist - Malema Speaking after his birthday celebrations in Ekhuruleni, EFF leader Julius Malema on Tuesday responded to questions regarding the party releasing the phone number of journalist Karima Brown. WATCH: EFF MP slaps security official at Parliament The Economic Freedom Fighters were caught in yet another scuffle at Parliament on Thursday, when one of their MPs assaulted a security official. WATCH: 'Our land and jobs now!' - EFF launches election manifesto Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema on Saturday launched the party's election manifesto at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve. WATCH: 'EFF is the only alternative' - supporter at manifesto launch Hundreds have filled Giant Stadium in Shoshanguve, north of Pretoria ahead of the Economic Freedom Fighters manifesto launch. WATCH: Political party 'slaughters' watermelon on Cape beach in video stunt A small political party has staged a mock sacrifice of a watermelon on a Cape Town beach in response to the slaughter of a sheep in December. WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). WATCH: EFF supporters storm Vodacom stores Self-declared members and supporters of the EFF, many in EFF T-shirts, attacked at least two Vodacom stores over the weekend. WATCH: Malema lays charges against Pravin Gordhan EFF leader Julius Malema opened a case of money laundering and corruption against Public Enterprises minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan files criminal charges against Malema Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan filed criminal defamation, crimen injuria and incitement of violence charges against EFF leader Julius Malema on Monday. WATCH LIVE: Julius Malema addresses the crowd outside #StateCaptureInquiry EFF leader Julius Malema addressed the crowd outside the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture where Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan was testifying. WATCH: EFF demonstrates for second day at #StateCaptureInquiry Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday continued with his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, as the EFF demonstrated outside for a second day in a row. WATCH: Pravin will destroy Eskom and SAA in order to privatise them - EFF The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) staged a picket outside the State Capture Inquiry on Monday calling for the removal of Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Public Enterprises. WATCH: 'Pravin lied to our people' – EFF While Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg on Monday, the EFF made its presence known, protesting outside the venue. LAND REFORM: The exact moment resolution to amend Constitution is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. WATCH: Singing in chamber as resolution that Constitution be amended is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. Land expropriation: EFF says it's race issue; DA questions process Court action to prevent Parliament from amending the Constitution to allow for expropriation without compensation seems imminent as parties opposing an amendment to section 25 all sang from the same hymn sheet. WATCH: Julius Malema on changing the constitution regarding land expropriation On 13 November in parliament, during the first day of the Joint Constitutional Review Committee deliberating a draft report on the possible review of Section 25 of the Constitution to allow expropriation of land without compensation. WATCH: 'VBS looters, pay back the money' - DA, EFF in war of words President Cyril Ramaphosa's last oral reply for the year came to an abrupt halt when the DA and EFF exchanged insults in Parliament. Watch. WATCH: 'Pay back the money' - MP's jeer at EFF's Floyd Shivambu in ironic turn of events EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu found himself on the receiving end of MP's jeering in Parliament on Tuesday, when he was heckled to "pay back the money" during a debate on the VBS Mutual Bank scandal. WATCH: EFF in heated brawl at East London Hungry Lion franchise Police have opened a case of assault following a scuffle between members of the Economic Freedom Fighters and staff at a Hungry Lion outlet in East London.

The incident took place on Friday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.