Earl Haupt @Earlhaupt Peter Mgutyana. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Residents in Phumlani Village in Lotus River are still in shock after community activist and Phumlani Village chairperson Peter Mgutyana was shot dead outside his home on Tuesday 5 March. Grassy Park police spokesperson Captain Wynita Kleinsmith says nobody has been arrested yet after a case of murder was opened for investigation. “On Tuesday at about 21:30 Grassy Park police officers were called out to a scene of a murder at Buzzard Road, Phumlani Village,” says Kleinsmith.When officers arrived at the scene, they found 51-year-old Mgutyana’s body with a gunshot wound in his face. Kleinsmith adds that no witnesses were present and that police are yet to establish the motive for the murder of the father of three, who was a respected leader within the community. Yushra Adams from New Horizons neighbourhood watch says she spoke to Mgutyana a mere 20 minutes before he was shot. She says she is still shaken by the violent act and was still seeking help for victims who were left destitute after a fire broke out in Phumlani Village where a blaze ripped through the settlement, destroying 68 homes, leaving 90 people displaced. The City of Cape Town’s disaster risk management confirms that Sassa has been informed to provide humanitarian relief. “I’m deeply saddened by a senseless killing. He called me yesterday (Monday) requesting assistance for fire victims. I often cautioned him about his conflict with gangs. When I heard last night, he was shot in his house, I was not surprised because everybody and anybody walked into his house at any time and he welcomed them. It is such a tragedy,” says Adams. She adds that Mgutyana was at the forefront in leading the campaign to have houses built and delivered in the area, while he was often known to frequent the sports field, as he served as the chairperson of the Phumlani Eagles. “Peter Mgutyana was a leader in his community. He had led many campaigns over the years and has been at the forefront of the campaign for housing. He is well-known by City officials who have engaged with him over many years. He is also the chairperson of the Phumlani Eagles Football Club making sure the youngsters play football and does not fall into gangs. He was not afraid of the gangs and was threatened by them. That community is going to miss him,” says Adams. V 
  Crime and criminals can be reported and a reward could be received by the reporter. Anyone with information on crime can call the police at 0217003940 or Crime Stop at 0860010111. All information will be treated as highly confidential.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.