Tammy Petersen Picture: News24 Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories R30m is needed to save Makhanda from “sinking”, the Gift of the Givers said on Saturday. The humanitarian organization bas issued a clarion call to government, Rhodes University alumni, tourists and the country at large to assist with donations to keep water in the taps of the historic town. Last month, the Eastern side of Makhanda, previously Grahamstown, was without water for over a week after the supply from the Fish River scheme to the Glen Melville Dam, whose water level had been low, resulted in sediment being agitated. At the James Kleynhans water treatment works, this sludged up operations. Makhanda: The Day The Taps Ran Dry In February thousands of residents of Makhanda were suddenly left without water when the municipality cut supply to parts of the town. Confusion and panic gave way to complaints about water quality when supply was restored. This outage caused a delay in the municipality's rush against the clock to avert Day Zero in the opposite end of town reliant on only rain water in the near-empty Settlers Dam. Experts have devised a plan to save the western end of Makhanda from disaster: getting the James Kleynhans water treatment plant to produce 10 megalitres of clean water per day to supply both the west and the east. About R140m will be used to expand the treatment plant over two years. Gift of the Givers have been supplying bottled water to residents since February. Its specialist hydrologist Dr Gideon Groenewald, drilling expert Martyn Landmann and Food Consulting Services – nationally accredited water testing specialists – did what had to be done, Gift of the Givers’ Imtiaz Sooliman said. “Eight boreholes have been successfully drilled thus far. Laboratory test results indicate filtration systems have to be installed to provide safe drinking water. Our experts are on it already. The first filtration system should be on site within a few days,” he said. “The initial phase is three boreholes at Rhodes, one at Settler's Monument, five at the Waainek Reservoir, four at Botha's Ridge, two at Ntsika School, one each at the Cathedral, SANDF, Correctional Services and the K9 unit, all with filtration systems.” “We expect a yield of 5 million litres of water per day as a conservative estimate for this first phase.” SPECIAL REPORT | Makhanda: The day the taps ran dry He appealed to government, corporate sponsors, alumni and anyone with a historical attachment to the town to assist with donations to Gift of the Givers, Standard Bank, Pietermaritzburg, Account Number 052137228, Branch Code 057525, ref. Makhanda. “We are here to assist the people, students, farmers, animals and the livelihoods of those from within and without, who come to exhibit their wares during the various fairs. But we can't do this alone. “’Saving’ Makhanda creates a model for saving other areas in our country. Only South Africans can save South Africa. We are in this together. Now is not the time for the blame game, opportunism, electioneering or politicking. It is time for altruism, generosity and co-operation.”    Gift of the Givers vind water in Makhanda Dr. Gideon Groenewald, 'n hidroloog, geoloog, paleontoloog en kenner oor die droogtekrisis in die Suidelike Halfrond, het suksesvol vir water geboor in Makhanda  (Grahamstad). Where to find the world's most crystal-clear water paradise spots Love island life? Here's where to find the world's bluest, blue waters. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. WATCH: New toilet uses 2 litres of water instead of the average 11 litres A new toilet that uses only 2 litres of water instead of the average 11 litres could be a new fixture in South African homes. South Africa's white farmers seek role in land reform as economic pressure grows White South African farmers are seeking a role in land reform as the ruling ANC moves to change the constitution to allow for the expropriation of white-owned land to rectify racial ownership disparities. Serbia: Arsenic in drinking water The drinking water in parts of Serbia has been contaminated with arsenic for years. Nearly a million people are affected. The maximum allowed concentration of the carcinogenic toxin was exceeded by as much as 27 times. WATCH: South African farmers have built the first floating solar park in Africa Western Cape farmers have built Africa's first commercial floating solar park – that now let's them tackle load shedding and drought. They say it's a better investment than a new orchard. Tiny S. Africa beach restaurant crowned best in world When it comes to fine dining, the isolated South African fishing village of Paternoster probably wouldn't be the first place you'd think of. And yet, a tiny beach restaurant in this town in South Africa's Western Cape has been crowned the world's ... India's polluted waters kill thousands Haldwani, a town in northern India, isn't the only Indian town with a clean water scarcity. 80 percent of India's surface water is polluted and each year thousands die due to water-borne diseases.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.