Poloko Tau Sibusiso Khwinana (Instagram) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Internationally acclaimed DJ, Black Coffee, was one of many who reacted with shock to the murder of Matwetwe lead actor Sibusiso Khwinana at the weekend, expressing his frustration about crime in South Africa. This, as police were still putting the pieces together. Police spokesperson Captain Mavela Masondo said on Sunday morning they were yet to make an arrest. Officers were still taking statements from people who were around when Khwinana was stabbed to death in Arcadia, Pretoria, around 23:00 on Friday. "According to information that we have, there is only one suspect," Masondo said. Black Coffee, who co-produced Matwetwe, posted a photo of 25-year-old Khwinana on his Twitter account on Saturday with the caption: "What a loss!!!! How long will it take for us to realize we have a crime problem as country, how many people must die before we do something. Who must we trust to protect us and our families, who must we vote for?" The actor played the role of Lefa in the locally-produced comedy and shot to stardom after Matwetwe hit the big screen last month. The actor was on Saturday described by Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa as "the pride of Soshanguve" (a sprawling township outside Pretoria where Khwinana hails from). WATCH: As Minister @NathiMthethwaSA speaks about the untimely death of #Matwetwe actor #SibusisoKhwinana whose death he describes as the "cutting of the flower before it has reached full bloom... & the striking down of talent in the midst of its rise..." #SAFTAs13 pic.twitter.com/k2VacQIo1n  Lebogang Khwinana, 23, told City Press that his cousin had ultimately dreamed of being a big-time director and had recently found his own theatre space for a new venture. "He really was one of the most kind and giving people I knew and was always making us proud... I can't help but think it should rather have been me," he told the newspaper. Khwinana and his friend were on the corner of Pretorius and Steve Biko Streets when he was accosted by a person who demanded his cellphone. It is believed that he had been attending a screening of the movie at a cinema in Sterland Mall, Pretoria when the incident took place. Speaking to The Juice, Masondo said: "As they were wrestling for the cellphone, the deceased was allegedly stabbed with a sharp object on the upper body. He was certified dead on the scene." The director of Matwetwe, comedian Kagiso Lediga, had very little to say in reaction to the bad news. "I don't know anymore," he tweeted on Saturday. Mthethwa tweeted: "We are devastated to learn of the tragic & untimely passing of Celebrated Actor & the pride of Soshanguve Sibusiso Khwinana whose talent was demonstrated in his performance in the box-office hit #Matwetwe. He was also a founding member of the Independent Theatres Makers Movement." At its 2019 manifesto briefing on social transformation on Sunday morning, the ANC said in a statement that it was "saddened at the senseless killing of a young man, Sibusiso Khwinana, whose life was taken too soon and the nation robbed of a rising talent". 'Scary clown' rapper jailed after brandishing shotgun at police A drill rapper who donned a scary clown mask and brandished a shotgun from a stolen BMW during a police chase has been jailed for 23 years, together with three fellow gang members. 1.3 tonnes of ephedrine seized by AFP working with Chinese law enforcement The Australian Federal Police and Border Force have seized 1,300 kilograms of the drug precursor ephedrine during an investigation into an organised crime syndicate. AFP says that with the Mexican meth seizure, Victoria's yearly share of ice consu... Jussie Smollett: US actor 'staged racist and homophobic attack' American actor Jussie Smollett paid $3,500 to stage a racist attack, according to police. The 'Empire' actor was arrested on Thursday but released after posting a $100,000 bond. He has been charged with felony disorderly conduct, which is punishab... Smollett's character cut from 'Empire' episodes Actor Jussie Smollett's character is being removed from the final two episodes of the hip-hop drama "Empire" after he was arrested and charged with staging a hoax hate crime attack on himself. Convicted fraudster on track for seat in Moldova polls On the campaign trail, businessman Ilan Shor insists corruption is Moldova's most pressing issue, despite having been convicted in a fraud case local media dubbed "the crime of the century". Shor was handed a seven-and-a-half-year jail term in 201... WATCH: Robbers make off with woman's phone, bag as she walks in Muizenberg SAPS confirmed that a case of robbery was reported at Muizenberg police station on Tuesday 19 February 2019. The incident allegedly occurred on 9 February at approximately 07:40. WATCH: Vicki Momberg shown support after leave to appeal application is postponed Former estate agent Vicki Momberg, who was convicted in connection with a racist rant, was back in the dock in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Wednesday - this time to apply for leave to appeal her effective two-year jail sentence. Man arrested for attacking Sikh clerk thinking he was Muslim A man identified as John Crain punched and threw hot coffee on a Sikh clerk in California because he thought he was Muslim. Crain has been arrested and charged with a hate crime. #hatecrime #Muslim #Sikh NSW Police bust drug syndicate in largest penetration of the dark web NSW Police Acting State Crime Commander Stuart Smith speaking to media in Sydney about the arrest of three people over a "sophisticated" illegal drug operation on the dark web. Smith says it is the largest penetration of the dark web in Australia and the alleged $17 million drug ring was the purest form of cyber crime. He also says during searches police seized drugs, luxury cars and significant amount of cash. Rubio says Venezuelan aid-blockade is "international crime" US Senator for Florida Marco Rubio visits Venezuela-Colombia border, where blocked humanitarian aid is waiting to enter crisis-hit Venezuela. Trump says wall needed to stop drugs 'invasion' US President Donald Trump defends his decision to declare a national emergency in order to build a wall on the US-Mexico border, saying "walls work 100 percent" and are necessary to stop an "invasion" of crime. Trump also says he expects his move ... Mexican cartels targeting Australia as a tsunami of meth is seized by US and Aus law enforcement Organised Crime Assistant Commissioner Bruce Hill warns that Mexican drug cartels are now focusing on Australia as a major drug exporting destination due to the high prices paid. Police announce that 1.7 tonnes of meth was seized by US drug enforcement based on Australian intelligence that was due to be shipped to from the US. Pizza Hut burglar tries to wash away crime scene blood with Pepsi A burglar who cut himself breaking into a Pizza Hut returned to the scene of the crime to try to wash away the trail of blood - with a bottle of Pepsi.

CCTV images showed hooded William Trotter, 37, smash into the Sunderland restaurant, where he ... Police hunt Italian Job-style shopping centre raiders Police have likened CCTV footage of thieves driving through a shopping centre to a scene out of 1960s crime caper The Italian Job.

The raiders smashed their way into the Forum Shopping Centre in Wallsend, North Tyneside, at around 4.10am on Janua...   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.