Tshidi Madia The ANC flag is photographed. (Thapelo Maphakela, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Just as the ANC’s rapid task team - appointed to broker peace between the North West provincial executive committee (PEC) and the provincial task team (PTT) - succeeds in getting the two warring groups to work together, six party members are threatening to derail its progress. News24 has seen a legal letter sent by some ANC members to secretary general Ace Magashule on February 27, giving him 48 hours to respond to concerns over the rapid task team’s powers to establish a PTT. The party members' lawyer, Tsholofelo Shuping, confirmed that he was acting on behalf of ANC members from various regions in the embattled North West province. Letter of demand "We’ve served the ANC with a letter of demand, it must respond today, failing which, we must approach the court on an urgent basis today to set aside the decision," Shuping told News24. The ANC in the platinum rich province has been at war with itself, with its former provincial chairperson Supra Mahumapelo and four others taking on an August 2018 decision by the ANC’s national executive committee - the party’s highest decision-making body in between conferences - to disband his executive committee and appoint an interim structure. Mahumapelo won two bids in court - the first for his PEC to be reinstated and the PTT declared invalid, and the second an enforcement order to allow him back into office with immediate effect. However, the NEC, which is appealing both judgments, opted to seek a political solution instead of allowing Mahumapelo back into office and, through its rapid task team, was able to establish a task team made up of both PEC and PTT members. READ: ANC NEC to decide the fate of the North West's executive committee, task team Shuping’s clients have, however, rejected the new development. Thapelo Galeboe, one of the aggrieved members said the ANC’s rapid response team was not a constitutional structure, but had been set up to address a specific issue. "In its terms of reference, it’s there to ensure there’s unity for election success. It’s not here to disband or appoint structures. That’s a political intervention by either the NEC or NWC (national working committee)," said Galeboe. Recommendations He said the rapid task team - which is made up of ANC deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte, and NEC members Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and Sdumo Dlamini - could only make recommendations and not take decisions. Last week, ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa told NEC members he was joining efforts to establish unity in the embattled province. The ANC confirmed having received the legal letter, but dismissed it as "baseless".It’s acting spokesperson, Dakota Legoete, told News24 that the rapid task team had been established by the NEC and was led by party deputy president David Mabuza."It has the mandate to intervene and then report to the NEC for ratification," explained Legoete.He said the ANC’s NWC had already endorsed the report on the organisation in the North West, adding Hope Papo and Amos Masondo to the new PTT."From here on, it will go to the NEC for ratification. We don’t call an NEC every day," he said.  WATCH: ANC paints Joburg yellow demanding service delivery Hundreds of ANC members from greater Joburg – in collaboration with alliance partners Sanco, SACP and Cosatu – are marching to the offices of Mayor Herman Mashaba, Premier David Makhura and Eskom to hand over memorandums demanding service delivery WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. WATCH: Ramaphosa delivers Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture President Cyril Ramaphosa is delivering the 8th Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture.

The focus of the address is restorative justice in South Africa, 20 years after the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. WATCH: ANC hails 'selfless leader' Mama Kotane as she celebrates 107 years ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule on Tuesday hailed stalwart Mama Rebecca Kotane at her 107th birthday celebration in Soweto. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. Mabuza back from sick leave, campaigns in Mpumalanga Deputy President David Mabuza has emerged in Piet Retief, Mpumalanga, after he went Russia for a routine medical trip after taking sick leave last month. 2017: WATCH: A News24 Festive Season special - politicians 'sing' Last Christmas Watch as South African politicians attempt to 'sing' pop duo Wham!'s 1984 hit single, Last Christmas. SAfrica's Ramaphosa gives speech at ANC manifesto launch 1ST IMAGES of South Africa's Cyril Ramaphosa's speech at the launch of his party's 2019 election manifesto. The African National Congress (ANC), which has ruled since the end of apartheid 25 years ago, is tipped to win the election in May despite ... SAfrica's Ramaphosa gives speech at ANC manifesto launch 1ST IMAGES of South Africa's Cyril Ramaphosa's speech at the launch of his party's 2019 election manifesto. The African National Congress (ANC), which has ruled since the end of apartheid 25 years ago, is tipped to win the election in May despite ... WATCH: Ramaphosa tees off ahead of ANC's manifesto launch President Cyril Ramaphosa enjoyed a day of golf on Friday morning ahead of  the ANC's birthday celebrations and manifesto launch on Saturday. Ramaphosa played alongside paired players at the Mount Edgecombe Country Club Estate in Durban. WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma. WATCH: 'We are not fighting the ANC' - Mahumapelo ahead of court appearance Former ANC North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo addresses supporters before fighting the NEC decision to disband his PEC at the South Gauteng High Court. ANC launches election manifesto South Africa's ruling ANC party launches its election campaign on Saturday ahead of polls in May that it is tipped to win despite recently falling support, internal divisions and a sluggish economy. On Friday, party members including President Cyr... S Africa 'captured by corrupt elements' South Africa's President Zuma feels "anxious" about his future, says ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. South Africa's ex-president just signed a record deal Former president Jacob Zuma, who is implicated in a major corruption scandal, has been given a taxpayer-funded record deal. Outa, ANCGP and civil society groups march to union buildings against etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. Thousands marched through the streets of Tshwane on Friday morning.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.