Kyle Cowan Cedric Frolick, National Assembly House Chairperson: Committees. Photo: File Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The unnamed MP who organised accommodation for Justice Minister Michael Masutha in Port Elizabeth where he was approached by former Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson in 2016 is National Assembly House Chairperson for Committees, Cedric Frolick. Masutha, in response to a question from DA MP Glynnis Breytenbach, told the justice portfolio committee on Wednesday that he had met Watson once while staying over in Port Elizabeth to attend an ANC Siyanqoba election rally in July 2016. He described how he had trouble finding accommodation ahead of the event, and was eventually assisted by a "colleague MP" who secured the house for the weekend. Frolick confirmed he was the unnamed MP when contacted by News24 on Thursday. Inside the ANC's Bosasa election war room Bosasa sponsored these war rooms for the past three elections for the ANC, at an estimated cost of R2-million per election. Masutha said he had met Watson while at the PE home, where Watson "took the opportunity" to discuss matters relating to Bosasa's catering contract with the department. The contract was one of four initial contracts awarded to Bosasa by correctional services in 2004 and 2005, worth around R2bn. Since then, these and other contracts have ballooned to R7bn to date. Watson allegedly asked Masutha to intervene in a dispute between Bosasa and the department, which was seeking to "disaggregate" the lucrative prisons catering contract. The department had launched a new round of procurement to try break the monopoly held by certain companies, Masutha explained. "I said [to Watson] that I don't deal with procurement or any contractual issues at the department. If indeed he felt that they had complaints he wished to raise with my office he should do so in writing, I don't deal with matters informally," Masutha told the committee. "Having realised the circumstances under which this hospitality had been extended to me, I then disclosed, at the very next opportunity in terms of executive members' disclosure, the hospitality that had been extended to me as result of a colleague here in Parliament making the offer in the manner I had just described." News24 could not find the declaration Parliament's Register of Members' Interests for 2016 and 2017, and asked his office to provide proof of the declaration. This request was referred to Parliament. In response to questions over the property, and whether or not Masutha could provide proof of the declaration, a spokesperson for the minister, Max Mpuzana, declined to comment. "The ministry will not be making any further comment on this matter. Our view is that the minister has said everything that he needed to say during his statement before the portfolio committee," Mpuzana said. Frolick, who confirmed he is a long-time friend of Gavin's brother Cheeky Watson through their mutual involvement in sport, claimed that he was not aware that Gavin would go to the house to meet Masutha. According to a Bosasa source, Cheeky and Gavin had agreed to ask Frolick to arrange the home for Masutha. When contacted on Friday, Cheeky Watson confirmed his friendship with Frolick, but denied that he had any involvement in Masutha's sleeping arrangements. "As to your other questions, I have no earthly idea," he said. Frolick further denied that the home belonged to Gavin, saying the owner was one of many people who had offered space in their homes for accommodation for ANC delegates. News24 is in the process of verifying the ownership of the property. News24 understands that the property which was made available for Masutha is situated inside the Royalston Estate, owned by another Watson brother, Valence. Frolick said he could not recall if the house was at Royalston or the name of the owner. "I did not even speak to Gavin Watson about accommodation for people," Frolick said, adding that he did not recall any meetings that were set up for Masutha or Watson. According to Masutha, Gavin Watson arrived on the Sunday morning with another man. When he raised the issue of payment for the hospitality, he was told that he did not need to do so, as it was part of the accommodation arrangements for delegates. Frolick meanwhile stated he had assisted to organise accommodation for other delegates, not just Masutha. "People were sleeping in store rooms," he said, illustrating the scale of the shortage of beds in PE that weekend. Frolick, a former school principal from PE, headed both parliamentary ad hoc committees that looked into the security upgrades at former president Jacob Zuma's Nkandla homestead. As chairperson of the committee, which had to pass judgment on the Nkandla affair on behalf of Parliament, his role was crucial to Luthuli House and to Zuma himself, City Press reported in 2014. The committee's report acquitting Zuma of any blame for the R246m upgrade at his home was accepted under protest by opposition parties in the National Assembly last week. READ: Jacob Zuma's new number one News24 has previously revealed links between Bosasa and Zuma, which includes the company sponsoring two birthday parties for Zuma worth an estimated R3m. Bosasa also allegedly donated R300 000 a month to the Jacob Zuma Foundation. PODCAST: The depressing budget, Gavin Watson in action... and Eskom AUDIO: This week on POLOTIKI, we had the budget speech and, yes, it was depressing. Video emerged of Bosasa boss Gavin Watson belittling staff, and more explosive testimony at the commission of inquiry into state capture with the spotlight on Eskom. WATCH: Bosasa liquidator takes charge of documents, servers Bosasa liquidator Cloete Murray on Friday took charge at the company's headquarters in Krugersdorp following their voluntary liquidation. WATCH: SARS swoops on Bosasa A team of South African Revenue Service officials arrived at Bosasa's head office shortly after noon on Friday to execute a search and seizure warrant. WATCH: Bosasa staff locked out by liquidators Bosasa staff locked out by liquidators WATCH: Gavin Watson belittles Bosasa staff, talks of his tender 'networks' Gavin Watson,, CEO of Bosasa, tackles staff over mistakes in their work submitting tenders. He mentions one contract worth R800-million which was nearly lost due to such a mistake. The video was taken during a Bosasa 'Imbizo', at Silverstar Casino. ANALYSIS: In a way this is the end of Bosasa, says Adriaan Basson News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and Opinions Editor Alet Janse van Rensburg unpack the latest developments in the Bosasa scandal, after the company announced it was under voluntary liquidation. Watch. WATCH: Striking Bosasa workers didn't know about liquidation Workers employed by facilities management company Bosasa, now known as African Global Operations, staged a demonstration outside its Mogale City head office on Monday - minutes after the company announced its voluntary liquidation. Whistleblowers should still come forward says Hawks after Bosasa arrests ormer Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi, former correctional services CFO Patrick Gillingham, and Bosasa official Andries van Tonder, on Wednesday briefly appeared in the dock at the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court. WATCH: Agrizzi, van Tonder and Gillingham appear in dock The Hawks on Wednesday arrested six suspects on allegations of corruption, money laundering and fraud relating to Bosasa. A warrant of arrest has been issued for a seventh suspect. WATCH: 'Ja boetie...and R900k next week' – Zondo inquiry hears from Bosasa bag man Yet more explosive testimony before the Zondo Commission of inquiry into state capture on Tuesday has revealed the identity of a man who delivered cash to Bosasa, which was in turn used to pay bribes to government officials and ministers. 'I will kill you' - Bosasa operative to journalist News24 editor-in-chief Adriaan Basson told the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture that a public relations executive paid by Bosasa said she would "kill" him if he told anyone about a threatening phone call she had made to him. LISTEN: 'That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. LISTEN: Bosasa bosses Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma [WITH SUBTITLES] In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. WATCH: 'Give me a tender' - sings satirical 'Elvis' on Bosasa scandal The much-talked about Bosasa scandal has gripped South Africa over the past week since former chief-operating officer Angelo Agrizzi blew the whistle on bribery and corruption. LISTEN: Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. WATCH: Agrizzi details unfair advantage given to Bosasa to secure 'one of the biggest' tenders Former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi is on the stand for the fifth day at the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.