Jenni Evans WATCH: Rohde 'used wife's body as a show house' to sell his story – Judge Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe referenced Jason Rohde's history as the former CEO of Lew Geffen Sotheby's International Realty by comparing the staging of his wife's suicide to the staging of a house by estate agents. Jason Rohde is applying for leave to appeal his murder conviction and 20-year sentence for the murder of his wife, Susan, and for staging her suicide, his advocate Graham Van der Spuy said on Tuesday. "Yes, he absolutely, definitely is," said Van der Spuy when asked to confirm the planned appeal. "It is definitely an application for leave to appeal both the convictions and the sentences." On February 27, the court sentenced Rohde to 18 years in prison for Susan's murder, and five years for staging a suicide. MOMENT OF TRUTH: Jason Rohde found guilty of murder Jason Rohde was found guilty of the murder of his wife Susan by the Western Cape High Court on Thursday. He was also found guilty of obstructing the ends of justice. 

Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe delivered her judgment in under two hours. Three of the five years would run concurrently, meaning Rohde would have to serve 20 years of jail time. The 50-year-old former property executive was found guilty in November of the murder of his wife at the Spier hotel in July 2016. He was also found guilty of obstructing justice by trying to make her death look like suicide. He had pleaded not guilty to both charges, saying that she was found dead in the bathroom at their hotel suite. Susan's death came at a fraught time in their marriage. She had caught him in an affair with an estate agent and the couple argued a lot over this. Rohde's attorney, Tony Mostert, confirmed that the application for leave to appeal was being served on Tuesday and would be filed at the Western Cape division of the High Court. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH LIVE: Jason Rohde sentencing procedures get underway Convicted murderer Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings will get underway in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday December 5. WATCH: Jason Rohde sentencing gets underway Murder accused Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings got underway in the Western Cape Western Cape High Court on Wednesday November 21. WATCH: Jason Rohde guilty of murder; bail denied (full stream) Jason Rohde has been found guilty of the murder of his wife Susan by the Western Cape High Court on Thursday. WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 3) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Closing arguments in Rohde trial - was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband Jason violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail?   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.