Tshidi Madia, Lizeka Tandwa The ANC flag is photographed. (Thapelo Maphakela, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Political parties have a day left to submit their candidate lists for the National Assembly and provincial legislatures to the Independent Electoral Commission of South Africa ahead of its Wednesday deadline. And the governing party, the ANC, is seemingly still scrambling to ensure its lists are up to standard. News24 understands the composition of the lists was the only item on the ANC national working committee's (NWC) agenda when it met on Monday. The ANC's national list committee is expected to finalise the list on Tuesday. ANALYSIS: Upcoming ANC provincial conferences key to Ramaphosa's survival Acting national spokesperson Dakota Legoete told News24 20 people had appeared before the top six group of leaders to state their case for selection. "These are people with minor transgressions like traffic fines or maintenance issues. Those with serious court findings against them have been removed," said Legoete. 'Very secretive process' He said the party spent most of Monday focusing on issues of compliance and guidelines. "This was to check if guidelines were met in the process. A number of people had also been referred to engage with the top six," Legoete told News24. An NWC member who did not want to be named said 38 people had been removed from the list but that their names were not known to all members. "This is a very secretive process. Even I can't say for sure who has been removed. I understand some still need to be spoken to," said the NWC member. When asked how many people had been removed from the list Legoete refused to commit to a number, only saying "20 plus people" had been affected. Another NWC member said only 15 names had been removed from the ANC's list of party officials to be deployed to the National Assembly. 'Mandela funeral money' officials affected This member said the selection criteria focused on three aspects – the person's criminal record, the ANC's own constitution on illegibility and its "through the eye of the needle" document, which determined if they have "impeccable credentials". "The 15 names [on the National Assembly list] will be replaced by additional names to make up the numbers and [ensure] the lists have 50% gender parity and 20% youth representation," said the ANC insider. News24 also understands party members who were embroiled in the Nelson Mandela funeral money scandal in the Eastern Cape are some of those affected by the party's decision. Some of those removed from the list will be informed of the party's decision on Tuesday. Lists from the embattled North West are going to be "politically managed", said the party insider. The ANC in the North West is currently embarking on a project to unite the fractured membership in the platinum-rich province following a series of intense and sometimes public leadership battles, including two court cases. Supra's group The party's provincial task team and the provincial executive committee (PEC) have since merged to become a single interim structure. One task team member told News24 that a group led by former ANC North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo had tried to get their list absorbed into the already existing lists compiled at the province's list conference earlier this year. "But there was no way they were going to get that, to get 50% of their names added on the list as the names already there are democratically elected by members through a process they themselves participated in," said the task team member. READ: ANC disappointed by 'alien tendencies' at violent NW list conference The provincial leader said it wasn't only members of the ANC in the North West who were unhappy, but alliance partners as well. One of the NWC members who spoke to News24 confirmed this, saying the list, which returns to the national list committee, has to have more names added to it. "Because they are undergoing the unity process, the ANC has to help ensure the lists accommodate some of the old PEC members, but the alliance is also not happy," said the insider. Mabuyakhulu exit leaves vacuum "They can only add around three names – very little that can be done there – and those names must include people from Cosatu, which is not very happy," added the NWC member. News24 understands that the alliance in the North West was in back-to-back meetings with Mahumapelo last week in an effort to finalise the lists. "Cosatu provincial leadership were arguing for a more pronounced inclusion," a source said. ALSO READ: SACP Western Cape unhappy with ANC list process Meanwhile, in KwaZulu-Natal, ANC deputy chairperson Mike Mabuyakhulu removed himself from the provincial list last week after consulting with the provincial working committee. Along with 16 co-accused, Mabuyakhulu is facing criminal charges of fraud amounting to R28m. Provincial secretary Mdumiseni Ntuli said Mabuyakhulu had been the only one on the provincial list facing criminal charges. Ntuli said this would create a vacuum in the provincial legislature list. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: IEC hails new law to ensure transparency in political party funding President Cyril Ramaphosa signed the Political Party Funding bill into law on Tuesday. WATCH: Ramaphosa tees off ahead of ANC's manifesto launch President Cyril Ramaphosa enjoyed a day of golf on Friday morning ahead of  the ANC's birthday celebrations and manifesto launch on Saturday. Ramaphosa played alongside paired players at the Mount Edgecombe Country Club Estate in Durban. WATCH: Political parties say they are ready for the coming elections Political parties say that they are ready for the coming elections. Speaking to News24 at the IEC elections launch at the Gallagher Convention Centre, the leaders also urged those eligible to vote to go register on January 26 and 27. Outa, ANCGP and civil society groups march to union buildings against etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. Thousands marched through the streets of Tshwane on Friday morning. WATCH: ANC paints Joburg yellow demanding service delivery Hundreds of ANC members from greater Joburg – in collaboration with alliance partners Sanco, SACP and Cosatu – are marching to the offices of Mayor Herman Mashaba, Premier David Makhura and Eskom to hand over memorandums demanding service delivery Inside the ANC's Bosasa election war room Bosasa sponsored these war rooms for the past three elections for the ANC, at an estimated cost of R2-million per election. WATCH: Armed local farmer walks into demonstration in Greyton Western Cape police are probing an incident involving a man who was caught on camera on Monday, wielding a firearm during a demonstration in Greyton. WATCH: ANC mourns the passing of Mendi Msimang - 'A giant tree has fallen' ANC pays tribute to struggle stalwart and its former treasurer-general Mendi Msimang following his passing at the age of 78. WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma. ANC launches election manifesto South Africa's ruling ANC party launches its election campaign on Saturday ahead of polls in May that it is tipped to win despite recently falling support, internal divisions and a sluggish economy. On Friday, party members including President Cyr... WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. Mabuza back from sick leave, campaigns in Mpumalanga Deputy President David Mabuza has emerged in Piet Retief, Mpumalanga, after he went Russia for a routine medical trip after taking sick leave last month.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.