Lizeka Tandwa WATCH: Magashule defends controversial candidates on ANC lists ANC Secretary General Ace Magashule has defended the inclusion of Bathabile Dlamini, Nomvula Monkonyana and Malusi Gigabaha on the party's lists, despite being implicated in state capture. Ace Magashule (File, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories ANC secretary general Ace Magashule has revealed the top 10 names on the party's national list, who may be headed to the National Assembly. Only three women are on the list. Magashule was speaking to the media shortly after he registered and submitted the party list to the IEC on Wednesday in Centurion. Top of the list are president Cyril Ramaphosa, Deputy President David Mabuza and party chairperson Gwede Mantashe. Also on the list are Ronald Lamola, Fikile Mbalula, Zweli Mkhize and Bheki Cele. The three women who made it into the top 10 are Nomvula Mokonyane, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and Lindiwe Sisulu. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. Those who declined nomination were former president Jacob Zuma, Gugile Nkwinti and Jeremy Cronin. Magashule said the party's national and provincial lists represent the diversity of a young nation, in terms of race, gender, geographic spread, age and class. "Critical in these considerations are also issues such as the track record of the candidates including their commitment to the cause of social transformation as enshrined in the country's Constitution, the Freedom Charter and relevant policy positions of the movement." He added that the party took deliberate steps to include in lists young capable leaders, "who we believe will play a critical role in the renewal and innovation of our legislatures and government. The youngest candidate on our lists is 20 years old," he said. "The ANC also ensured inclusion in its lists people living with disabilities. The ANC is the only political party, since 1994, who in word and deed ensured equitable representation for women. The 2019 lists live up to this tradition, with 53% of our list [being] women." WATCH: Ramaphosa takes election campaign to Park Station President Cyril Ramaphosa, and Gauteng ANC officials, took to train stations across the province to encourage commuters to vote for the party in the upcoming national elections. PODCAST: ANC and the polls – are the party's leaders even bothered with the upcoming elections? This week on POLOTIKI, yet another ANC leader found himself in the middle of sexual assault claims, EFF leader Julius Malema takes the land question to Newcastle and we peel off another layer of the relationship between the ruling party and Bosasa. Inside the ANC's Bosasa election war room Bosasa sponsored these war rooms for the past three elections for the ANC, at an estimated cost of R2-million per election. ANC launches election manifesto South Africa's ruling ANC party launches its election campaign on Saturday ahead of polls in May that it is tipped to win despite recently falling support, internal divisions and a sluggish economy. On Friday, party members including President Cyr...   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.