Riaan Grobler (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 19-year-old man who went swimming with a 17-year-old friend is believed to have drowned at Dappat Se Gat, between Gordons Bay and Koegelbaai, on Sunday. According to NSRI Gordons Bay station commander Alan Meiklejohn, NSRI Gordons Bay duty crew were activated by the Transnet National Ports Authority (TNPA) following reports of a drowning in progress at Dappat Se Gat, between Gordons Bay and Kogelbaai, at 17:16 on Sunday. "The sea rescue craft Spirit of Surfski was launched and an NSRI rescue vehicle, the SA Police Services, GB Med ambulance and rescue, CoCT (City of Cape Town) Fire and Rescue Services Dive Unit, CoCT Lifesaving lifeguards, WC Government Health EMS rescue squad and the EMS/AMS Skymed rescue helicopter responded," said Meiklejohn. "On arrival on the scene, a search commenced for a 19-year-old male from Kuils River missing in the surf. "A 17-year-old male who had been swimming with his friend, the missing teenager, was found safe ashore and he was treated by paramedics for hypothermia and he required no further assistance." According to Meiklejohn, the two teenaged friends had been swimming together when they were caught in rip currents. The 17-year-old was able to get ashore but his 19-year-old friend had disappeared beneath the surf. "Despite an extensive sea, air and shoreline search no sign of the missing teenager has been found and a police dive unit is continuing in an ongoing search operation." Police have opened an investigation and family of the missing teenager are being supported by police trauma counsellors. Gordon's Bay duty crew were activated to reports of a drowning in progress at Dappat Se Gat, and Witsand crew activated to reports of a fishing kayak capsized at Hen en Kuikens, just inside of The Bar, Breede River Mouth. https://t.co/5uJKJMlIFd  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter It's time to involve the entire security cluster - Blade Nzimande after latest Cape Town train fire Firefighters have arrived at Cape Town train station to battle yet another train-related blaze after thick, black smoke permeated the air above the station on Tuesday. WATCH: High speed N1 Cape Town crash leaves BMW driver critical Video of a BMW crashing into a barrier on the N1 in Cape Town and spinning out of control has gone viral online. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits. WATCH: Forensic teams comb crime scene after Mihalik shooting A police officer calls for assistance moments after criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik was shot dead in his car in Green Point, Cape Town. WATCH: 'A fairy-tale day' as homeless couple exchanges wedding vows A dream came true for Llewellyn Jenniker and Cecilia Jenniker on Tuesday when the homeless couple, who've been living together on the streets for decades, finally tied the knot. VIDEO: New footage shows devastation after Cape Town N1 high speed crash New footage of the crashed BMW on the N1 in Cape Town has emerged on social media, this time showing the aftermath of the incident. Little accident in the swimming pool Woman tries to get comfortable in her inflatable chair.  FAIL! Going drag racing with a politician Watch as City of Cape Town's mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith answers questions while sitting passenger at a legal racing event. Could smartphones spot teen depression? Smartphones have been blamed for contributing to depression and suicidal behavior in susceptible teens. But what if they could identify kids at risk? Researchers are trying to develop phone apps to detect impending mental health crises. WATCH: A poor man can come to this sale... and buy a champion Former golfer and stud farm owner Gary Player says race horse ownership is more accessible than many may realise. We caught up with the legendary sportsman at the 2019 Cape Premier Yearling Sale in Cape Town. Watch. The Street Art Galleries of Cape Town Rather than an act of vandalism, many see graffiti art as a form of visual poetry engaging with the people of the city. This is your guide to exploring the open-air galleries of the Mother City in South Africa. WATCH: Three accused of murdering Mihalik appear in court The three men accused of Pete Mihalik's murder - Vuyile Maliti, Sinozokohle Biyela and Nkosinathi Khumalo - appear in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Friday 15 February 2019. WATCH: The Sasol Solar Challenge Sasol Solar Challenge 2018 took place from the 22nd to the 30th of September. FLAMINGO CHICKS rescued from perilously low water levels in South Africa Some 300 Lesser flamingo baby chicks have been rescued and taken into the care of the SANCCOB conservation centre in Cape Town.  According to a veterinarian in charge of feeding the baby flamingos, David Roberts, the centre received information "t... WATCH: Cellphone footage shows violent mob justice on Cape Town promenade On Sunday, the Eden on the bay promenade in Big bay, seemed no different than it usually does on a sunny weekend for the most part of the day. Then the end of the day saw the stretch of grass on the promenade turn into a small war zone. WATCH: Cape Town matrics beam after receiving IEB marks The young men and women exiting Reddam House Atlantic Seaboard in Cape Town on Thursday couldn't stop smiling when they saw that their hard work had paid off for the IEB national senior certificate exams. The teenage poet tackling HIV through verse Kenyan teen poet Meshack use rhyme to educate people on the dangers of diseases like HIV and polio. Rose Byrne shares throwback photo of a teenaged Heath Ledger Rose Byrne has shared a throwback photo of herself and Heath Ledger from a movie they made together when they were teens. Transgender teen spends GBP15k on surgery to look like Kim Kardashian A transgender teenager who modelled herself on Kim Kardashian says spending almost GBP15,000 on her new look has finally made her feel like a woman. Ed Sheeran has a special message for his Cape Town fans Ed Sheeran has announced a second and final show at Cape Town Stadium on Thursday, 28 March 2019. The Wonder of Rwanda Kigali is joining the ranks of start-up cities in Africa alongside Lagos, Nairobi and Cape Town. A new start-up center has just opened there. WATCH: 'Small meteor' lights up Cape night sky Social media was ablaze with talk about a meteor that lit up the Western Cape sky in loud, fiery fashion on Wednesday. 
One lucky farmer managed to capture the meteor on CCTV camera. WATCH: Oh beer! Crates of alcohol crash out of beer truck in Cape Town It was unhappy hour for a truck driver who lost a huge load of beer after attempting to turn his vehicle in South Africa on Friday. Lions suspected in drowning of 400 buffaloes in Botswana More than 400 buffaloes believed to have been chased by lions drown in a river in northern Botswana. The mass drowning occurred on Tuesday night in Chobe River on the border with Namibia. Buffalo river drownings are not uncommon in the region, but... Iowa runaway teen found dead after snowstorm A 13-year-old Iowa boy was found dead on Sunday after running away during a snowstorm following a fight with his parents over a cell phone. Tennessee house fire kills adult and 3 teens Three teenagers and an adult were killed, and seven people were injured in a house fire in a suburb of Memphis, Tennessee, authorities said Monday. Blac Chyna's teen boyfriend proposes to her on social media Blac Chyna's teenage boyfriend YBN Almighty Jay has asked her to marry him on social media. The teenager getting rich from hacking legally Sam is part of an international community of teenagers getting rich from legally hacking websites. US officials show expanded teen migrant facility US officials and managers of a detention facility for teenage migrants have offered a glimpse of its current expansion, showing a new section where nearly 150 children sleep in rows of bunk beds in a large windowless room. Armie Hammer's sad teenage years Armie Hammer didn't fit in at school and used to cry himself to sleep. Former charity chief: Professionals are not always the answer Sophie Andrews, CEO of the charity The Silver Line, explains that telephone support was crucial for her during her teenage years and how professionals are not always the answer. Natalie Dormer 'profoundly bullied' at school Natalie Dormer says she her teenage years do not hold happy memories because of the abuse she received from "mean girls" at her school. Mabel admits her teenage years were 'difficult' London-based singer Mabel has admitted she found her teenage years to be "difficult". UN refers Saudi teen seeking asylum to Australia The UN is asking Australia to consider re-settling a Saudi teenager who fled from her family and is now in Bangkok. Blac Chyna pregnant with teenage rapper's baby? Blac Chyna is reportedly pregnant with her third child, fathered by her her teen rapper boyfrined YBN Almighty Jay. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Drake to executive produce teen drama 'Euphoria' Actor turned rapper Drake is returning to high school to executive produce a new TV series starring Zendaya. WATCH: MyCiTi employees' 'wildcat' strike continued on Tuesday A "wildcat" strike by MyCiTi employees appeared to enter its second day on Tuesday as the bus service announced disruptions on several routes around Cape Town. Why Cape Town is turning off its taps South Africa's second largest city is in the midst of a severe drought. WATCH: Cape Town's karate kid raises tournament money through hard work and community support A pint-sized karate kid from Lansdowne in Cape Town has unleashed his inner entrepreneur, raising money to take part in a national karate tournament by selling atchar, dried fruit and sauces at a stall in Rylands. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. VIDEO: 'We pay R2 to use mall toilets' – Cape Town informal settlement residents demand basic servic Five Cape Town communities joined with social justice movements to march to the Cape Town Civic Centre on Thursday. 

The protesters expressed exasperation over the lack of basic services in informal settlements in the city. Ex-Texas cop sentenced for unarmed teen's murder A white former Texas policeman is jailed for fifteen years over the deadly shooting of an unarmed black teenager in a Dallas surburb last year. WATCH: Zille breaks ground on R3bn mixed-income residential project Western Cape Premier Helen Zille said the "pioneering" housing project expected at the site of the derelict old Conradie Hospital in Cape Town could "make or break" the current housing system. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. WATCH: Bakkie goes swimming while trying to pull boat out of the water in Cape Town A man who was pulling a boat out of the water at the Oceana Power Boat Club in Granger Bay, Cape Town, got more than he bargained for at the weekend when his vehicle also had to be towed out of the water. Between The Flags They are part of a great tradition that echoes across the past 100 years, from Darwin to Devonport and Bondi to Bunbury. Surf lifesavers are ordinary people doing an extraordinary job, of your own free will. This is their story. WATCH: 'Ho, ho, whoooa!' - NSRI to the rescue as Santa slips and stumbles off boat A jolly Santa Claus managed to do what he does best at a beach in Cape Town this weekend, putting smiles on many children's faces in a rather unexpected fashion.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.