Ntwaagae Seleka Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The school governing body (SGB) of Bryanston High School in Johannesburg has denied that it withheld any sensitive information, which an anti-abuse group says prevented more sexual abuse victims from coming out. Founding director of Women and Men Against Child Abuse (WMACA), Miranda Jordan-Friedman, addressed the media on Monday morning in Melrose, Johannesburg, saying they had been confronted with "roadblocks and gatekeepers" at the school since the sexual abuse allegations emerged. On Friday, a sports coach accused of sexually harassing three pupils at the school was fired. According to the SGB, the man faced a disciplinary panel of three presiding officers, who found him guilty on all counts of sexual harassment and financial mismanagement. The 33-year-old coach, who has not pleaded yet, is facing sexual assault charges at the Alexandra Regional Court. He is expected back in court on March 12. The alleged incidents of sexual assault were said to have taken place during netball matches and on school outings between 2017 and 2018. A parent of one of the complainants confirmed this to News24. READ: Bryanston High School coach guilty of sexual harassment, dismissed immediately Jordan-Friedman said three girls had reported the alleged abuse to their principal. Two of them testified at the disciplinary hearing, and one of them - together with her mother - had laid criminal charges against the coach. She said the school had persuaded the parents of the victims to follow the disciplinary instead of the criminal route. "We believe that some teachers could have witnessed the abuse because they happened inside the school premises," said Jordan-Friedman. 'School has also misled MEC' She added that Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi was also told that the matter was sexual harassment, when in fact it was sexual abuse. "Some teachers don't want to be seen standing next to the investigating officer. The school has also misled MEC Panyaza Lesufi. We believe the abuse started a while back. We believe that the girls were sexually groomed by their coach. We demand that the SGB hand over those statements to the police," she said. The organisation said it believed that there could be more victims of the coach. "The school should have followed the criminal process, rather than the disciplinary hearing. They believed that disciplining the teacher will save the reputation of the school." ALSO READ: Outrage as George dentist gets 3 years for sexual assault on teen boy SGB chairperson Aidan Hillebrand labelled the allegations by WMACA that SGB members were withholding information as incorrect, false and unfounded. "When the matter first came to the school's attention, the department of education was notified. On the same day the department was notified, the parent of the learner opened a charge at Sandton police station. Throughout the process, the school has interacted with the police and the department and have always complied with every request for information. "The school has also had a meeting with WMACA at their request. Throughout the process, the school has communicated with parents and learners. Learners have been encouraged to come forward if they have experienced anything similar and counselling has been made available," he said. Hillebrand added that the school had met every request for information from the police. WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. 'Please continue to support them' - Babe Wodumo's father to parents of abuse victims On Tuesday Bongekile Simelane's parents spoke on her behalf at a press conference as she was too ill to be there. Allegations of abuse at SA consulate in Munich after video shows employee attempting suicide Ill-treatment of staff at the South African Consulate in Munich, Germany has come under the spotlight after a video emerged of a woman trying to take her own life on the premises. WATCH: Support for Sans Souci teacher following court appearance The teacher charged with the assault of a Sans Souci Girls High School pupil, as well as the teenager she slapped, made their first appearances in the Wynberg Magistrate's Court on Wednesday. Sans Souci Girls' High School 'n Video waarop leerlinge van die Sans Souci Girls' High School die onderwyseres Clarissa Venter, wat Dinsdag een van hul medeleerlinge geklap het, ondersteun, het Donderdag op sosiale media versprei. WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.