Tshidi Madia WATCH: Malema condemns rape threats after EFF posts Karima Brown's number Speaking after his birthday celebrations in Ekhuruleni, EFF leader Julius Malema on Tuesday condemned rape being used as a threat. EFF leader Julius Malema has suggested the DA could be in for rough ride following the May national elections, and says Ekurhuleni deserves a new leader. Malema made the comments to journalists after a breakfast he held for the elderly in Ekurhuleni on Wednesday as part of his birthday celebrations. "After the elections, we are going into government. We will be MMCs in Joburg; we are going to be mayor in Tshwane," said Malema. READ: ANC has lost some support ahead of elections - latest IRR poll PODCAST: ANC and the polls – are the party's leaders even bothered with the upcoming elections? This week on POLOTIKI, yet another ANC leader found himself in the middle of sexual assault claims, EFF leader Julius Malema takes the land question to Newcastle and we peel off another layer of the relationship between the ruling party and Bosasa. The EFF is in an informal relationship with the DA in the cities of Johannesburg and Tshwane and it is through Malema's party that the second largest political party in South Africa was able to take control of the capital city from the ANC in the 2016 local government elections. "We will go into a coalition with anyone willing to speak to that arrangement. We cannot have the DA having two municipalities, yet they have not won an election," Malema said. While most of his interaction with reporters focused on threats made against journalist, analyst and radio host Karima Brown, after Malema posted a screenshot of a WhatsApp message she posted to an EFF media group - showing her cellphone number - he also hit out at Ekurhuleni Mayor Mzwandile Masina and his government. "This corruption that these people are talking about, we know it requires leadership, because there is no leadership here," said Malema. 'We don’t think that guy deserves to be a mayor' Earlier, elderly members of the community in Ekurhuleni complained about the quality of life in the metro, with Malema joining in and accusing the ANC of only giving jobs to those who supported their party or slept with the city's councillors. Malema said the EFF had long called for the removal of Masina as the mayor of the only metro governed by the ANC in Gauteng. "In Ekurhuleni, we have always tried to remove the mayor and if the opportunity does present itself we will remove him, because we don't think that guy deserves to be a mayor here," he said. This position comes as the ANC in Ekurhuleni struggles to see eye to eye with its coalition partners about the metro's COO, Lesiba Mojapelo. Just last week, the ANC defeated a motion in council to have Mojapelo suspended. This was over findings made against him by the Special investigating Unit over chain supply policies during the city's 2010 World Cup activities. And while Malema has denied that the EFF was talking to smaller parties to remove Masina, a number of local councillors - including a number from the EFF - believe there is a possibility for all parties finding each other to work against the ANC in Ekurhuleni. 'We deliver services for all' "We don't want to get into any marriage where we have some form of obligation, we want flexibility like that," said Malema. The Ekurhuleni mayor, through his spokesperson Phakamile Mbengashe, said the City subscribed to employment equity principles, which seek to promote equal opportunity and fair treatment in employment through elimination of unfair discrimination. "We strongly urge the public to report any cases of unfair or unethical employment practices to the South African Police Service for urgent investigation. The City of Ekurhuleni remains committed to a zero-tolerance approach to fraud and corruption," said Mbengashe. The DA's Solly Malatsi said Malema knew the right platform to raise any issues regarding his party's relationship with the DA in metros. "Our focus is to ensure that for, as long as we are in government, we deliver services for all, govern well and fight corruption," said Malatsi. "Should the EFF choose to no longer prioritise the people that we were elected to serve, they will need to explain that to the voters who rejected the failing ANC at the polls," he said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: We are not convinced Karima Brown works for ENCA - Malema Speaking after his birthday celebrations in Ekhuruleni, EFF leader Julius Malema on Tuesday responded to questions regarding the party's public spat with journalist Karima Brown. WATCH: Karima Brown is not a journalist - Malema Speaking after his birthday celebrations in Ekhuruleni, EFF leader Julius Malema on Tuesday responded to questions regarding the party releasing the phone number of journalist Karima Brown. Video of UFS student cleaning up after EFF protesters has social media users at one another's throat A University of the Free State (UFS) student has unwittingly opened a virtual can of worms after a video of him cleaning up after protesters went viral. WATCH: What would the Ramaphosa-Malema-Maimane band be called? If President Cyril Ramaphosa formed a band with EFF leader Julius Malema and DA leader Mmusi Maimane, what should it be called? WATCH: EFF MP slaps security official at Parliament The Economic Freedom Fighters were caught in yet another scuffle at Parliament on Thursday, when one of their MPs assaulted a security official. WATCH: 'Our land and jobs now!' - EFF launches election manifesto Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema on Saturday launched the party's election manifesto at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve. Ramaphosa: I will sing Masekela's 'Thuma Mina' if EFF win in May South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa jokingly says that if the Economic Freedom Fighters win elections in May, he will sing Hugh Masekela's song 'Thuma Mina' in Parliament. Ramaphosa was delivering his last state-of-the-nation address ahead of... EFF-LP hou sitstaking ná skool kinders weier Nazeer Paulsen, EFF-LP, hou 'n sitstaking by die Laerskool Strandfontein nadat dié skool twee leerlinge toelating geweier het. Annaleen Lombart is een van die leerlinge se ma. Video: Jaco Marais S.Africa's EFF party supporters arrive ahead of Manifesto launch Supporters of South Africa's far-left Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) arrive at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve, Pretoria, ahead of the party's manifesto launch. WATCH: 'EFF is the only alternative' - supporter at manifesto launch Hundreds have filled Giant Stadium in Shoshanguve, north of Pretoria ahead of the Economic Freedom Fighters manifesto launch. WATCH: Political party 'slaughters' watermelon on Cape beach in video stunt A small political party has staged a mock sacrifice of a watermelon on a Cape Town beach in response to the slaughter of a sheep in December. EFF skel op joernaliste in hof EFF-lede het joernaliste en die familie en ondersteuners van Pieter Doorewaard en Phillip Schutte Maandagoggend in die hooggeregshof in Mmabatho gekoggel en gedreig. Hul vonnisverrigtinge weens die moord op Matlhomola Moshoeu (16) in 2017 in Coligny, WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). EFF nader hof oor wet Die EFF het vandag die hooggeregshof in Pretoria gevra om dele van die Wet op Oproerige Vergaderings ongrondwetlik te verklaar. Floyd Shivambu, die EFF se adjunkpresident en parlementslid, het die media ná die hofaansoek toegespreek. WATCH: EFF supporters storm Vodacom stores Self-declared members and supporters of the EFF, many in EFF T-shirts, attacked at least two Vodacom stores over the weekend. EFF-ondersteuners bestorm Vodacom-winkel Vodacom in Mall of the North in Polokwane is na bewering Sondagoggend deur EFF-ondersteuners bestorm, meubels en goedere is omgegooi en werknemers en klante het vinnig agter in 'n kantoor gaan wegkruip terwyl dit gebeur het. WATCH: Malema lays charges against Pravin Gordhan EFF leader Julius Malema opened a case of money laundering and corruption against Public Enterprises minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan files criminal charges against Malema Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan filed criminal defamation, crimen injuria and incitement of violence charges against EFF leader Julius Malema on Monday. EFF vs ANC: 'Ons maak moord hier! Video: Charles Smith WATCH: Pravin Gordhan wraps up his testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day3 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan wrapped up his testimony at the judicial inquiry into state capture sitting in Johannesburg on Wednesday. Watch. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan wraps up his testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day3 / Part1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan wrapped up his testimony at the judicial inquiry into state capture sitting in Johannesburg on Wednesday. Watch. WATCH LIVE: Julius Malema addresses the crowd outside #StateCaptureInquiry EFF leader Julius Malema addressed the crowd outside the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture where Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan was testifying. WATCH: EFF demonstrates for second day at #StateCaptureInquiry Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday continued with his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, as the EFF demonstrated outside for a second day in a row. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day1 / Part3) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: Pravin will destroy Eskom and SAA in order to privatise them - EFF The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) staged a picket outside the State Capture Inquiry on Monday calling for the removal of Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Public Enterprises. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day1 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day 1/Part 1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: 'Pravin lied to our people' – EFF While Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg on Monday, the EFF made its presence known, protesting outside the venue. LAND REFORM: The exact moment resolution to amend Constitution is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. WATCH: Singing in chamber as resolution that Constitution be amended is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. Land expropriation: EFF says it's race issue; DA questions process Court action to prevent Parliament from amending the Constitution to allow for expropriation without compensation seems imminent as parties opposing an amendment to section 25 all sang from the same hymn sheet. WATCH: Julius Malema on changing the constitution regarding land expropriation On 13 November in parliament, during the first day of the Joint Constitutional Review Committee deliberating a draft report on the possible review of Section 25 of the Constitution to allow expropriation of land without compensation. WATCH: Debonairs Pizza shop threatened with closure over working conditions A video has surfaced of social activist and former EFF Students' Command leader Mpho Morolane embroiled in a heated exchange with a Debonairs franchise owner. WATCH: EFF expected to address VBS claims The Economic Freedom Fighters will on Tuesday address the media on the VBS Mutual Bank report released by the South African Reserve Bank last, titled The Great Bank Heist. WATCH: 'VBS looters, pay back the money' - DA, EFF in war of words President Cyril Ramaphosa's last oral reply for the year came to an abrupt halt when the DA and EFF exchanged insults in Parliament. Watch. WATCH: Gigaba apologises for pinky finger gesture Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba has apologised unreservedly for making a gesture with his pinky finger at an EFF MP during Parliament's volatile sitting on Tuesday. WATCH: Malema mocks Gigaba? 'We are not playing with ourselves, we are playing music' A video of Julius Malema is circulating on social media in which the EFF leader seemingly mocks Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba. KYK hoe EFF debat oor kostes ontwrig. Teboho Mokwele, EFF-LP in die Nasionale Raad van Provinsies, het Donderdag Chris Hattingh, DA-LP, se debat oor datakostes ontwrig. WATCH: 'Pay back the money' - MP's jeer at EFF's Floyd Shivambu in ironic turn of events EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu found himself on the receiving end of MP's jeering in Parliament on Tuesday, when he was heckled to "pay back the money" during a debate on the VBS Mutual Bank scandal. WATCH: EFF in heated brawl at East London Hungry Lion franchise Police have opened a case of assault following a scuffle between members of the Economic Freedom Fighters and staff at a Hungry Lion outlet in East London.

The incident took place on Friday. Die EFF het geen rede om in Floyd Shivambu te twyfel nie. Julius Malema, leier van die EFF, het Dinsdag gesê die party het geen bewyse gevind dat sy adjunkpresident, Floyd Shivambu, geld van VBS Mutual Bank ontvang het nie. MyCiti-stakers sê hulle moet in toilethokkies eet Die EFF het Dinsdag by stakers van die MyCiTi-busdiens aangesluit en aangedring dat die Kaapse metroraad na hulle eise kom luister. Werkers van die busdiens staak sedert Maandag en wag steeds op Brett Herron, burgemeesterskomiteelid vir vervoer, om h EFF lei stakende MyCiTi-werkers na munisipale kantoor EFF lei stakende MyCiTi-werkers na munisipale kantoor 'Let all land belong to the state' The radical EFF opposition party has called for expropriation of land without compensation to redress the imbalance in land distribution in South Africa.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.