Kaveel Singh and Sesona Ngqakamba Oudpres. Jacob Zuma in die Pietermaritzburg-hooggeregshof. Foto: Leon Lestrade/pool Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) has admitted to not filing papers explaining why former president Jacob Zuma must go on trial for his corruption and racketeering case. NPA spokesperson Natasha Kara said in a statement on Saturday that the State attorney representing the NPA wrote to the attorneys for Zuma and French arms company Thales on February 21, requesting their consent to an extension of the date for filing to Monday, March 11. She said this was due to the "voluminous nature of the papers filed by Zuma's legal team". "This request was made on the basis that it would be agreeable that the dates for the filing of their client's replying papers and heads of argument be extended to April 12 and 30 respectively". She said the dates for the filing of the State's heads on May 10 and the hearing from May 20 to 23 would remain unchanged. READ: Zuma will be back in court in May 2019 The NPA would be delivering its affidavits by March 11, she confirmed. "The State attorneys will also deliver a formal application for condonation of the late delivery of the answering papers and for the extension of the dates for the filing of Zuma and Thales replying papers and [heads] of argument set out in the State attorney's letter of February 21." During Zuma’s last appearance in the High Court in Pietermaritzburg on November 30, 2018, deputy Judge Mjabuliseni Madondo ordered that the permanent stay of prosecution arguments, together with criminal proceedings be heard on May 20. The State was ordered to deliver its answering papers by March 1, 2019. READ MORE: 5 new developments in the Zuma corruption case and what they mean BusinessDay reported that the NPA delay comes after prosecutors had filed an application to obtain 17 documents from Zuma, which he referred to in his permanent stay application, on February 20. Zuma's legal team was said to be fuming at the delay, calling it a move to buy time as it said the State already had all those documents, according to TimesLive. Zuma has filed a 300-page affidavit asking for a permanent stay of prosecution. He claimed he was a victim of an orchestrated attempt by the NPA to align him to corruption. Thales, the arms company implicated with Zuma, also filed its application in the High Court to have the prosecution permanently set aside. It claimed it had been denied a fair trial because of unreasonable delays and its right to present and challenge evidence. The embattled former president faces serious charges including one count of racketeering, two counts of corruption, one count of money laundering, and 12 counts of fraud relating to 783 payments he allegedly received in connection with the controversial arms deal.The charges relate to the arms deal, formally known as the Strategic Defence Procurement Package. It was a multibillion-rand military acquisition project finalised in 1999. WATCH: Jacob Zuma arrives at court to support son Duduzane Former president Jacob Zuma arrived at the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday show support for his son Duduzane, who has been charged with two counts of culpable homicide. S.Africa: J. Zuma arrives at his hearing over corruption charges Former South African President Jacob Zuma arrives at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of fraud, racketeering and money laundering. 1ST WATCH: 'It's me, former president Jacob Zuma' - Zuma joins social media Former president Jacob Zuma says he has decided to "move with times" and join various social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. PODCAST: Zuma's nine lost years? Ramaphosa shouldn't forget — he was there AUDIO: 2019 is off to a flying start, from Bosasa and the endless inquiries to Solly Msimanga stepping down as Tshwane mayor and electioneering getting into full swing.

This week on POLOTIKI, we discuss former president Jacob Zuma's legacy. PARODY: Jacob Zuma sings Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word The closest SA may get to an apology from Jacob Zuma, is this parody of the president singing Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word. South Africa's Zuma says he will resign 'with immediate effect' South Africa's President Jacob Zuma has said he will resign "with immediate effect".

Mr Zuma made the announcement late on Wednesday in a televised address to the nation. Zuma on land: Less debate, more nationalisation Former President Jacob Zuma said there is too much debate about land expropriation without compensation to his liking, and suggested that land should be nationalised. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma case postponed, Jacob Zuma, BLF show support Duduzane Zuma appeared briefly in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Friday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.