In an attempt to keep the children away from the streets during school holidays the Hoops 4 Hope organisation together with Zebra Crossing Adventures from the United States of America held coaching clinics for basketball at Linge Primary School in Nyanga on Tuesday. Learners who attended the event were from Mzamohle (Philippi) and Linge (Nyanga) primary schools and players from CNP Thunder and Waves basketball teams both from Nyanga. Thabo Marotola, the Hoops 4 Hope sport manager, described the event as helpful and educational, particularly to young children as it keeps them fit and away from the streets. “Our basketball league is on recess for now and will resume at the beginning of May under Cape Town Basketball Association. So, for us to keep our children focused we organised coaching clinics where we teach them basketball skills,” he said. He added that they also educate life skills in various primary schools in Nyanga, Philippi and Crossroads. He said it is not the first time working with the American organisation. “They have been visiting us (Hoops 4 Hope). They are teaching our players basketball skills and sharing all their experience with us,” said Marothola. The founder of Zebras Crossing Adventures Chad Songy said they are visiting the province to learn about the history of this country and different cultures from different perspectives. He said they also assist small organisations with different things in order to develop them. “Today we are here to connect with people through sport and teaching them skills. And we already visited Robben Island, District Six and Khayelitsha just to get a different perspective about these areas,” said Songy. He described South Africa as a warm country. “People welcome us with warm arms everywhere we go. There is more vibe here. Unlike in the USA where there is no connection,” he said. Songy said they arrived in the country last week Saturday and will leave again this coming Saturday. CNP Thunder’s point guard Dineo Gasonti (16) also described the training as fruitful. “We learn a lot today on how to pass a ball, shooting, bounce a ball and defend. These are crucial things in basketball,” said Gasonti. She urged her peers to participate in sport in order for them to stay fit and out of wrong doing.