Sesona Ngqakamba Police are investigating the death of the crew member. (Photo: Pexels) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A three-year-old who was shot in the crossfire in a shootout in Rylands, Cape Town has died in hospital, Western Cape police have confirmed. Earlier News24 reported that the police were on the scene to investigate the incident. According to police spokesperson Captain FC Van Wyk, the incident took place at around 10:15 at Pook se Bos informal settlement. Van Wyk said the attempted murder case would now be changed to murder. "Arrangements are made for counselling to the family," said Van Wyk. Van Wyk had said the child was caught in the crossfire after a group of unidentified men in a white vehicle opened fire in the direction of the address where the child was. The child was shot in the head. "The injured child [was] taken to a nearby hospital for medical treatment," Van Wyk said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter     WATCH: Zille's biggest achievements in her own words Outgoing Western Cape Premier Helen Zille spoke about her 10 year term on the side-lines of a rally to launch the Democratic Alliance's manifesto at the Bellville Velodrome on Sunday. WATCH: Buses burned, windows shattered in CPUT violence Vandals destroyed two buses and damaged buildings at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology's Bellville campus in the early hours of Wednesday morning. WATCH: SS Mendi memorial site does not depict enormity of the tragedy -  Cyril Ramaphosa The South African National Defence Force celebrated Armed Forces Day 2019 on Thursday in Cape Town
The SANDF also honoured the bravery of sons and daughters of our country who lost their lives in the fateful 1917 sinking of the SS Mendi. WATCH: State-of-the-art sports ground opens in Philippi FC Bayern captain Philipp Lahm, opened sports ground last Saturday. WATCH: Bakkie goes swimming while trying to pull boat out of the water in Cape Town A man who was pulling a boat out of the water at the Oceana Power Boat Club in Granger Bay, Cape Town, got more than he bargained for at the weekend when his vehicle also had to be towed out of the water. WATCH: South African farmers have built the first floating solar park in Africa Western Cape farmers have built Africa's first commercial floating solar park – that now let's them tackle load shedding and drought. They say it's a better investment than a new orchard. Behind the eye-popping wonders that make the Cape Town Carnival The Cape Town Carnival's main workshop in Maitland is where the magic happens. Rat stuck in manhole cover rescued by firefighters A fat rat had to be rescued by firefighters after it got stuck in a manhole cover. A team of at least nine firefighters helped release the rodent from the cover in the German town of Bensheim. Why SA offers the ultimate camping holiday South Africa is the ultimate camping destination - from our suitable climate to an extraordinarily diverse selection of camping spots - whether you opt to pitch your tent in Kruger, along the Garden Route or along the East Coast. Kim Jong Un makes a splash in Vietnam as Trump lands Since arriving in Vietnam, the North Korean leader has had several viral moments ahead of his summit with U.S. President Donald Trump. Brazil marks one month after deadly mine dam disaster Relatives of the dead and victims who lost their houses hold a protest and memorial one month after a Vale mine dam collapsed in the town of Brumadinho in central Brazil, burying hundreds of people in mud. Powerful 7.5-magnitude quake hits eastern Ecuador The USGS said Friday morning's quake was near the town of Montalvo, Ecuador, at a depth of 132 kilometers DOCUMENTARY | News24 takes you inside the cult that captured an Eastern Cape community News24 sent a team of journalists to Ngcobo in the wake of deadly shootings between police and members of a confirmed cult. The team spoke to the cult leaders, families of victims, law enforcement and cult experts to piece together the story. Israel aims for the moon with Genesis lunar lander An Israeli spacecraft rocketed toward the moon for the country's first attempted lunar landing, following a launch Thursday night by SpaceX. SpaceX rocket carrying Moon-bound Israeli spacecraft lifts off A SpaceX rocket takes off from Florida's Cape Canaveral carrying Israel's Beresheet spacecraft, which aims to make history twice: as the first private-sector landing on the Moon, and the first from the Jewish state. Alabama paper calls for the KKK to 'night ride' again An editor of a small-town newspaper in Alabama has drawn widespread condemnation after calling for the Ku Klux Klan to "night ride again" and check Democrats "plotting to raise taxes" in the state. Israel aims for the Moon with its first lunar mission Israel is to launch its first moon mission next night from Cape Canaveral. Videographic on the mission. Officials call Halifax fire deadliest blaze in recent memory Seven children from a family of newcomers have been killed in what is being called the deadliest fire in Nova Scotia’s recent history. Fire officials in Halifax say they are conducting an investigation into the cause of the blaze. Tiny S. Africa beach restaurant crowned best in world When it comes to fine dining, the isolated South African fishing village of Paternoster probably wouldn't be the first place you'd think of. And yet, a tiny beach restaurant in this town in South Africa's Western Cape has been crowned the world's ... Living As The Last Person On Earth Picture the scene. You awake one day to find that you're all alone. That there's no one else in your town, city or even country. Quickly you realise that you're the only person left on planet Earth. What would you do? How would you feel? And how long could you survive? It's the ultimate post-apocalyptic existence, and in this video we explore what would happen if Armageddon did strike - and you were the only one left! Richard E. Grant was told he looked 'too weird' to be an actor Richard E. Grant has revealed that when he was studying at the University of Cape Town he was told by his adviser that he wasn't "really cut out" for life as an actor. Guinness World Records: German town ‘holds largest-ever Smurfs meeting' A small German town was turned blue when it tried to break the world record for the largest meeting of Smurfs. US military planes head for Venezuela with aid The U.S. Air Force has begun flying tons of aid to a Colombian town on the Venezuelan border as part of an effort meant to undermine socialist President Nicolas Maduro. 'Never seen anything like it' says Warnock at Sala funeral Cardiff City manager Neil Warnock paid his respects at the funeral of Emiliano Sala in the town of Progreso in the Argentinian province of Santa Fe on Saturday. Sala tragically died when the plane chartered by pilot David Ibbotson crashed in the E... 'Sala was forced to board plane' Sala's cousin Emiliano Sala's cousin Martin Gatti said to media that "there are many irregularities" in Sala's case. The remains of Emiliano Sala are veiled in an open ceremony in his home town Progreso in Santa Fe province. The wake takes place at the Club Atl... Sala's remains visited by mourners in home town The remains of footballer Emiliano Sala were veiled in an open ceremony in his home town of Progreso in Santa Fe province. The wake is taking place at the Club Atlético y Social San Martin de Progreso, where the former club striker Nantes began hi... Bangladesh hosts world's second largest gathering of Muslims Bishwa Ijtema, the world's second largest congregation of Muslims after Hajj, kicks off amid tight security in the Bangladeshi town of Tongi, with up to three million Muslims set to participate at this year's four-day-long gathering. 23 feared dead in flood at disused Zimbabwe gold mine At least 23 illegal gold miners are feared dead in Zimbabwe after two disused shafts flooded in a mining town 145 kilometres (90 miles) south-west of the capital Harare. WATCH: Three accused of murdering Mihalik appear in court The three men accused of Pete Mihalik's murder - Vuyile Maliti, Sinozokohle Biyela and Nkosinathi Khumalo - appear in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Friday 15 February 2019. Recovery starting 100 days after Paradise burned It's been 100 days since a wildfire nearly burned the town of Paradise off the map. The Nov. 8 blaze destroyed nearly 15,000 homes in the Northern California city of 27,000 residents. The long recovery is just starting. 'We saved our town from your Western plastic rubbish' When a Malaysian town was inundated with foreign plastic waste, a group of villagers decided to fight back. Itta Bena: the U.S. recovery's forgotten town Rural areas of the U.S., especially in the South, are lagging far behind more developed parts of the country, despite the nearly decade-long economic recovery. It’s a problem Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell hopes to tackle on his watch. Couples marry on Robben Island in tribute to Mandela On Valentine's Day, couples tie the knot on Robben Island in South Africa to pay tribute to Nelson Mandela who spent time in prison on the island during Apartheid. Britain: The self-sufficient village The people of Hawes, a small town in northern England, are used to solving their own problems. The unease about Brexit seems far removed from the Yorkshire villagers. But they too are preparing for March 29th - by becoming even more self-sufficient. WATCH | Oasis in Ashes: The day a fire swallowed a town On 30 December 2018 a devastating fire gutted the historical mission station of Wupperthal, destroying scores of properties and robbing the residents of their homes, livelihoods and heritage. Newborn baby girl pulled out of South African storm drain Emergency services were called after cries were heard coming from the drain in Newlands East, near Durban in South Africa. Following a three-hour rescue operation, police are now investigating how the baby got there in the first place. Worshippers at mosque get their blood pumping with post-prayer gym class The faithful at a mosque in the Iraqi Kurdish town of Halabja have been keeping fit after prayer thanks to regular exercise classes inside the holy building. Andrew Scheer holds town hall in New Brunswick Federal Conservative Leader Andrew Scheer holds town hall meeting to discuss issues in New Brunswick. WWII vet honored decades after brutal beating Nearly 73 years after a racially fueled beating at the hands of a white police chief left a black WWII veteran blind, a South Carolina town is honoring his memory. Women's underwear turned into art to fight objectification in Valencia Women’s underwear were turned into ceramic artworks, to protest sexual objectification, as part of a joint initiative between an art school in the town of Manises near Valencia and the city council. Women were asked to volunteer by taking off thei... Dolly Parton involved in own Grammy tribute Dolly Parton joined performers including Miley Cyrus, Little Big Town, Kacey Musgraves and Katy Perry in a tribute segment to herself at the Grammy Awards. FLAMINGO CHICKS rescued from perilously low water levels in South Africa Some 300 Lesser flamingo baby chicks have been rescued and taken into the care of the SANCCOB conservation centre in Cape Town.  According to a veterinarian in charge of feeding the baby flamingos, David Roberts, the centre received information "t... Hanoi kids prepare to welcome Kim Jong Un Children at a kindergarten in Hanoi have been practicing dancing, hoping to show off their talents to North Korean leader Kim Jong Un when he comes to town for his second summit with President Donald Trump.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.