Correspondent The scene in Parktown where a man was shot dead on Monday.  (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A man was shot multiple times while waiting at an intersection in his BMW X5 in Parktown, Johannesburg, on Monday afternoon. Police spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubela confirmed the incident to Times Live. Netcare 911 spokesperson Shawn Herbst said in a statement paramedics responded to the scene at around 15:30. "Netcare 911 responded to reports of a shooting on the corners of Queens Road and Princess Place in Parktown, Johannesburg," Herbst said. WATCH: Hijacker shoots elderly Welkom man in driveway "Reports from the scene indicate that an adult male had sustained multiple gunshot wounds while sitting in his car at the intersection. "The vehicle moved forward and went down an embankment into a park. The patient was assessed on scene by a Netcare 911 emergency care practitioner and found to have no signs of life and declared deceased on the scene. "Circumstances leading up to the shooting will be investigated by the SAPS who are on scene and have cordoned off the area for investigations to take place, Herbst said. By about 18:30, police had removed the body from the vehicle as forensic teams combed the area, Times Live reported. Gauteng: An adult male has died after being gunned down in his car at the intersection of Queens & Princess in Parktown. @FatalMoves @News24 @IOL @TheCitizen_News @SABCNewsOnline @mailandguardian @eNCA @ewnupdates @maroelamedia @JacaNews @Radio702 @POWER987News @RK_Gazette pic.twitter.com/YapDlGxJVq  SHOOTING : EMPIRE RD. PARKTOWN. JHB. GP. VICTIM OF BLACK X5 DECEASED. UNKNOWN M.O. pic.twitter.com/34ZiIRTf6q   WATCH: Hijacker shoots man in Welkom driveway An elderly man is recovering in hospital after being shot during a hijacking in Welkom, Free State on Friday. WATCH: Domestic worker hit by car, driver speeds off A video of a woman being hit by a car while crossing the road in Benoni, reportedly on Monday morning, has been going viral on social media.
In the video, the woman is seen crossing the road outside the John Barrable Hall in Northmead, Benoni. WATCH: Woman kidnapped in Bergbron and robbed in her BMW A woman escaped unscathed after she was taken in her car and robbed on Saturday night in the Randburg suburb of Bergbron. WATCH: Driver catches car thief in the act A motorist managed to stop car thieves seconds before they drove off with his vehicle from a parking lot at a Springs shopping centre. WATCH: New footage shows armed men fleeing after Joburg M1 shootout New footage has emerged giving further insight into the shooting on Johannesburg's M1 on Monday. WATCH: Driver reverses BMW i8 over pond, hedge and into wall A Joburg driver was left devastated after she crashed a BMW i8 into the neighbour's wall. WATCH: Brazen robbery in Hillbrow leaves two security officers dead Two security officers were shot and killed during a robbery in Hillbrow on Monday night. WATCH: Spinning car that hit pedestrian found Police are investigating a case of carjacking after two women were highjacked in Mitchells Plain on Friday. WATCH: Woman robbed at gunpoint outside Midrand shopping centre Police are investigating a case of armed robbery after a woman was robbed at gunpoint in the parking lot of the Crowthorne shopping centre last week Wednesday. WATCH: Shooting at KZN court - two confirmed dead At least two people have been shot and killed at the Durban Magistrate's Court.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.