Ntwaagae Seleka WATCH: Brick slinging man attacks cops An Mpumalanga man is under police guard in hospital after being shot and injured by police at a school. A Mpumalanga man, who allegedly threw bricks at the windows of a local school, is under police guard in hospital after police shot and injured him. The incident took place on Thursday at Mmametlhake High School. A video of the incident is doing the rounds on social media and it shows a man throwing bricks at the school's windows. Later, two officers arrive in a police van. The man charges at the police and uses bricks to pelt them. Complaint Police spokesperson Brigadier Leonard Hlathi said police were dispatched to the school after receiving a complaint. "On their arrival, however, they discovered that in actual fact, a certain man was damaging windows of the school with bricks - an incident which terrified educators and learners. "It was later brought to our attention that the man had arrived at the school demanding to see the principal, when he was told that it would not be feasible for him to see the principal. "He then reportedly went on a rampage, destroying windows of the school. Hence, police were called," said Hlathi. He added that the man also directed his anger at the two police officers when they arrived in a marked vehicle. "He, without doubt, had a clear intention to inflict deadly injuries to the female officer who was in the car. "She had to dive, trying to dodge the rain of bricks the suspect hurled in her direction." READ: Two suspected criminals killed in shootout with police The man somehow managed to open the door of the police van while it was in motion. "It was during that process when the female officer was flung out of the spinning vehicle, sustaining minor injuries." Hlathi said the man was seen running after the police van. "At this stage, police had no option but to use force by shooting at the raging man, in protecting everyone in the vicinity, himself included." "Only then was he subdued and arrested. IPID (the Independent Police Investigative Directorate) has been informed about the incident and will conduct their own separate investigation," said Hlathi. The man will face charges of attacking police officers and malicious damage to property after being discharged from hospital. Cop shot by suspected hijackers In another incident on Wednesday, suspects shot and injured a Mpumalanga police officer. Police are appealing for information that would lead them to the arrest of the suspects. Hlathi said the officer and his colleague were responding to a hijacking complaint in Delmas when they were shot at. "According to preliminary reports, the two officers saw a light being flashed from a cellphone and thought it was the complainant. "They [went] toward the light and saw a truck which was open at the back. Suddenly, shots were fired from the truck in the direction of the two officers." The officers returned fire. However, one of them was struck by a bullet before the suspects fled, said Hlathi. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: IPID denies timing of Phahlane's arrest is 'suspicious' Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) Spokesperson Moses Dlamini has denied allegations that Khomotso Phahlane's arrest was a show for the media. WATCH: Robbers make off with woman's phone, bag as she walks in Muizenberg SAPS confirmed that a case of robbery was reported at Muizenberg police station on Tuesday 19 February 2019. The incident allegedly occurred on 9 February at approximately 07:40. WATCH: Journalists manhandled and barred from Durban City Hall The South African National Editors' Forum (SANEF) on Tuesday released a statement condemning the "unconstitutional and chilling action" taken against journalists at the Durban City Hall. WATCH: Thieves steal Diesel watches from Pretoria shop A Pretoria business has appealed to twitter following the brazen theft of four Diesel watches worth R 4000 each out of a locked display. WATCH: Armed thieves attack cash-in-transit guards in Krugersdorp A money truck was attacked by armed thieves after guards were collecting money from a filling station in Kagiso on Monday. WATCH: Police arrest KZN man who threatened to blow up office workers Police have arrested a KwaZulu-Natal man who threatened to blow up office workers with a bomb. WATCH- Durban metro police officer among 3 dead in CBD shooting A metro police officer is among three people who were killed in a shooting near the KwaZulu-Natal High Court in Durban on Monday morning.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.