Tshidi Madia (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Embattled City of Ekurhuleni municipality chief operations officer (COO) Lesiba Mojapelo has denied any wrongdoing in the handling of the City's Lungile Mtshali Community Development Project, instead suggesting he is being targeted by some of his colleagues after a report noted irregularities in the project. The project was aimed at giving each of the 112 wards in the municipality R1m for the development of parks. Among some of the adverse findings in the preliminary review report by Meodi Chartered Accountants was that out of thirteen parks the City had been invoiced for work done, four were non-existent. The City was billed R1 095 306.06 for the four sites. The report also found that work at eight out of the 13 sites "was of either poor quality and standard or was not performed as claimed on the invoices". This work amounted to R3 776 169.69. On Tuesday, Mojapelo took journalists on a tour of some of the parks developed through the project. News24 joined one of the site visits in Kempton Park. In an attempt to clear his name, Mojapelo painstakingly listed the processes and challenges his office experienced in rolling out the project. Accountants' work 'very bad' He said the City's suspended chief financial officer (CFO), Gugu Malaza, had no right to commission an investigation into the project in the manner that she did. "The work they did was very bad," said Mojapelo of Meodi Chartered Accountants. "We didn't even know there was an investigation," he continued. Mojapelo said the parks each have a different look because of the various wards' needs and should be judged beyond what can be seen with the "naked eye". Mojapelo admitted some wrongdoing on the City's part, which he said included allowing councillors to dictate how they wanted the parks built in their wards. "We acknowledge that this was new and there would always be some shortcomings. We must take responsibility sometimes. We underestimated the understanding. Yes, there was a process where we engaged with councillors but gave them too much liberty." A source of tension He said the City thought giving councillors a scope for the project was sufficient but it had since learnt it wasn't. The COO, who is no stranger to controversy, has previously been the subject of a Special Investigating Unit probe into fraud and corruption allegations related to the City's 2010 legacy project. The Public Protector also investigated his return to Ekurhuleni after he left with a cloud hanging over his head. He has also been the source of tensions between the ANC and its coalition partners in council, resulting in the ANC having to fend off attempts to have him suspended through a motion of no confidence. READ: ANC, Ekurhuleni coalition partner at odds over council COO's future Just last week, EFF leader Julius Malema questioned Mojapelo's role in the City, claiming he was being protected by Ekurhuleni Mayor Mzwandile Masina. While Mojapelo dismissed this claim, he acknowledged he was part of the politics playing out in the only metro not governed by the DA in Gauteng. "I am working in a political environment, none of us are exempted from politics when working in a political environment," he said. While Mojapelo called the CFO "silly" and declared his "total innocence", he said he knew he was being targeted but refused to divulge any reasons why or who could be behind the plot. "They say the tallest tree catches the most wind. As to why people do this and ulterior motives, I don't operate like that," he said. Some in the City have previously called for Mojapelo to step aside so that it could deal with some of the troubled tenders, but he has refused. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Ramaphosa calls on private sector to assist with the fight against corruption Corruption has become a big issue that has to be addressed by the whole nation, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Thursday. Patricia de Lille on her lowest time in her politics career The past 18 months have seen battle royal in the DA in Cape Town, which reached a turning point on Wednesday when Patricia de Lille resigned as mayor and DA member amid a criminal investigation against her. WATCH: Mzwandile Masina inspects Benoni dam wall after collapse Ekurhuleni Mayor Mzwandile Masina conducted a site inspection at Middle Lake in Benoni, Gauteng, on Thursday following a partial dam wall collapse. WATCH. WATCH: 'We are not fighting the ANC' - Mahumapelo ahead of court appearance Former ANC North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo addresses supporters before fighting the NEC decision to disband his PEC at the South Gauteng High Court. WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. WATCH: Political party 'slaughters' watermelon on Cape beach in video stunt A small political party has staged a mock sacrifice of a watermelon on a Cape Town beach in response to the slaughter of a sheep in December. PODCAST: A look at what made headlines in 2018 AUDIO - As 2018 draws to an end, it would be remiss if we didn't reflect on this year's top stories. 

The News24 editorial team joined senior politics reporter Tshidi Madia to discuss the stories, people and scandals that dominated the headlines. 'It's time for a new political order' - De Lille announces new political party Former Cape Town mayor and DA member Patricia de Lille says she is ready to serve her country under a new political movement. WATCH: Ramaphosa takes election campaign to Park Station President Cyril Ramaphosa, and Gauteng ANC officials, took to train stations across the province to encourage commuters to vote for the party in the upcoming national elections. Jesse Duarte exposes sexual harassment as endemic at Luthuli House. ANC deputy secretary general Jesse Duarte has exposed how sexual harassment is endemic at Luthuli House. WATCH: Damage to 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard a criminal act – DA The DA has called the damage inflicted on its newly unveiled 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, a 'criminal act'. DA Leader says "No" to corrupt business donations DA leader, Mmusi Maimane spoke out about the fact that his party has never accepted a donation from a business involved in corruption. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. 'That's hogwash!'- Pule Mabe on accusations of intimate relationship with former PA ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe, who is currently on leave from that role pending the outcome of the inquiry of sexual harassment claims, strongly denied claims that he and his former assistant had an intimate relationship of sorts in the past. WATCH: Journalists manhandled and barred from Durban City Hall The South African National Editors' Forum (SANEF) on Tuesday released a statement condemning the "unconstitutional and chilling action" taken against journalists at the Durban City Hall.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.