Ntwaagae Seleka Part of the school that has been closed (Ntwaagae Seleka) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories More than 1 100 pupils from Ennerdale Secondary School are languishing at home following fears they could become victims of a tragedy similar to the one that claimed the lives of four pupils at Hoërskool Driehoek. Since a concrete slab collapsed onto a corridor at the Vanderbijlpark school in February, killing the four children, parents of pupils at the Ennerdale Secondary School have decided to keep their children at home. PICS: 'We don't want another Driehoek situation' – Ennerdale school shut amid collapse fears Concerned parents and employees claim that a walkway connecting two blocks is unstable as it vibrates when walked on. WATCH: Hundreds gather for emotional night vigil at Hoërskool Driehoek Hundreds of people gathered at Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark for an emotional night vigil, after a concrete slab collapsed at the school, killing three children and seriously injuring 25 others. Several large cracks can be seen on the structure. In 2016, scaffolding poles were put in place to support the walkways. But parents say the owner of the scaffolding is now demanding the poles back.  Scaffolding holds up walkway between two blocks at Ennerdale Secondary Schools (Ntwaagae Seleka) There are signs of infrastructure damage to other parts of the school building. Roof tiles have shifted in some areas, while in one classroom plaster around a window has peeled back, revealing cement and padding. Currently, only 114 Grade 12 pupils are attending school. They have been moved to another block of classrooms that have been deemed safe. Chairperson of the school governing body Delphine Botha said it had been agreed with parents that teaching and learning would only resume once the department had provided mobile classrooms and toilets. On February 22, parents and some pupils marched to the office of MEC for education Panyaza Lesufi seeking his urgent intervention. "The following day after we handed a memorandum to Lesufi's office, officials from our district flocked at the school to inspect the building and we agreed that three days later, pupils will return back to classrooms. We then realised that the situation was still not safe for our teachers to walk up and down the stairways changing classrooms," Botha said. During a parents' meeting on February 26, it was then agreed that teaching and learning should again be suspended for two days. Intervention On February 28, parents then escalated their plight and headed to the office of Minister Angie Motshekga seeking her intervention. Botha said officials from Motshekga's office, accompanied by a structural engineer, arrived at the school on March 1 and inspected the building. "The engineer declared that the two walkways linking to the administration block and classrooms, a building housing toilets and 21 classrooms are not safe and must not be utilised by anyone anymore. We told the engineer that we need temporary classrooms and temporary toilets. "So far we have only three toilets that are used by our Grade 12 learners," she said. Botha added that there were 21 extra classrooms that could be used by Grade 10 and Grade 11 pupils. But, there are no toilets that the two grades can use. "We have told the engineer that as soon as they bring temporary toilets, Grade 10 and Grade 11 pupils will immediately return to class. Regarding the Grade 8 and Grade 9 pupils, they will only return to school once mobile classrooms have been brought to the school. The Gauteng department of education must shoulder the blame. Its officials have been aware of the situation at our school and they failed to act on time. "We don't want our children to go back to a building that is unsafe and could collapse and kill them," she concluded. Concern Spokesperson Steve Mabona said the Gauteng department of education had appointed a service provider for the rehabilitation of the two walkways. "What we know and we are advocating is for all learners to go back to school. There have been delays in the appointment of the service provider. We are concerned about disruptions of teaching and learning. We hope that at the beginning of the second term, the structures would have been rehabilitated. "We are pleading for some mechanism to assist learners going back to their classrooms," he said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Denver teachers prepare to strike on Monday Denver teachers plan to strike Monday after failed negotiations with the school district over pay. Teachers plan to picket around the city beginning Monday. The district plans to staff schools with administrators and substitutes. Denver teachers picket on first day of strike Denver teachers picket on first day of strike Cardi B visits former elementary school Cardi B just shocked and surprised teachers and students at her old elementary school when she paid them a visit! Parkland shooting victims remembered 1 year later One year after 17 were killed inside Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, students return to class with heavy hearts and tears down their cheeks. Drake shoots video at Miami school and donates scholarship Drake surprised pupils at Miami Senior High School when he turned up to film his latest music video, and thanked them by donating $25,000 to the school and promised to design them all new uniforms. Teens on how social media could affect well-being of students The Toronto District School Board says social media use is one area of concern as new data indicates a decline in students’ well-being. One high schooler says turning off phone notifications is one way he maintains “balance.” WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. Where the Mean Girls Characters Would Be Today What do you think happened to the students of North Shore High School after graduation? For this list, we’re playing out a “what if” scenario and looking at what we imagine would have happened to each of our favorite “Mean Girls” characters after the events of the movie. Bomb threat empties Sandy Hook on anniversary A bomb threat forced the evacuation of the Sandy Hook Elementary School on Friday, a day of memorial services and moments of silence to mark the sixth anniversary of the massacre of 20 first-graders and six educators. Lost deer causes chaos at school CCTV captures the moment an open door at Enterprise High School in Missouri tempts a lost deer, which tumbles over as it hurtles along a corridor. The school's principal said the animal was going 'full throttle'. Teacher recalls shooting victim Reese Fallon as friendly, kind A Grade 12 teacher of Toronto shooting victim Reese Fallon says he remembers the 18-year-old as "witty" and a leader at school. Fallon, who graduated from Malvern Collegiate last month, was killed in the Sunday attack. Six sets of twins dominate one high school basketball team A feature on Wednesday (28th November) at Splendora high school in Texas, where six sets of twins have dominated the school's basketball schedule. Grieving Parkland mother heals through advocacy In the year since her daughter was gunned down at a Parkland high school, Lori Alhadeff won a seat on the local school board and started a foundation to make schools safer. She keeps a dizzying pace, saying the advocacy helps with her grief. Yemeni student creates machines from cardboard A high school student from war-torn Yemen, Ahmed al Ma'mary is creating machines such as fridges, safes and fans out of cardboard. Ahmed has turned his passion into innovation. He's now serving tea in a street cafe to pay his school fees but dream... 'Why I'm taking a knee' Belle Glade high school student Kortney Ware on why he's joined the NFL protest. Turkey's Maarif Foundation hosts first graduation ceremony in Afghanistan In Afganistan, where 3.5 million children are out of school, these high school students from an Afghan-Turkish school are celebrating their graduation. China's youth embrace street dance amid hip-hop crackdown In China, where children are often saddled with a packed schedule of extracurricular activities before they even enter grade school, some parents are making room for a surprising pursuit: hip-hop dance classes. SA's top matriculant missed half the school year due to a rare disease After missing almost six months of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker managed to nab the coveted spot of SA's best matriculant. Celebrity Closeup: Kristen Bell Actress Kristen Bell was born in the suburbs of Detroit, Michigan. As a child, she hated her first name, and used her middle name Anne instead until she reached high school. Celebrity Closeup: John Krasinski Growing up just outside of Boston, Massachusetts, John Krasinski made his stage debut in sixth grade as Daddy Warbucks in a school production of 'Annie'. He went on to study theater and playwriting in college, even spending time training with the ... First Auditions: Michael Shannon Michael Shannon landed his first ever part in high school, although he never got to show off his skills. WATCH: SA Human Rights Commission reacts to the Hoërskool Driehoek tragedy The SA Human Rights Commission will launch a probe into a walkway collapse at a high school in Vanderbijlpark, that killed four children last week. Trudeau announces funding for La Loche high school Prime Minister Justin Trudeau announced $2.2 million in funding for a La Loche, Saskatchewan, high school where a deadly shooting took place in 2016. The town’s mayor says the funding will help the healing process. Texas student: 'I ran as fast as I could' Two Santa Fe High School students describe the immediate aftermath of the mass shooting on their campus. More children to lose out on top secondary school choice Up to 115,000 children could miss out on their first choice secondary school From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg. Marseille high school students clash with police Thousands of high school students take to the streets in Marseille, as more and more join students protest against education reforms affecting university admission. High School Students Robotics Teams High school students from Bellarmine College Preparatory, Davis High School and Hercules High School present their robotics projects. Four charged for plotting attack against Muslim community in New York Three men and a high school student were charged with plotting to attack a rural upstate New York Muslim community named Islamberg with explosives. #Islamophobia #Islamberg #NewYork Philippines court hands down first murder verdict against police in drug war A Philippine court on Thursday found three police officers guilty of murder for the killing of a 17-year-old high school student, the first such conviction in President Rodrigo Duterte's war on drugs. Philippine court jails police officers for drug war murder A Philippine court has found three police officers guilty of murder in the killing of a 17-year-old high school student last year. #Duterte #Philippines #drugwar Grandfather’s ashes baked into cookies: police A California high school student is accused of baking her grandfather's cremated remains into a batch of cookies and handing them out to classmates who ate them. Meet the teenager studying combat at school A surge of patriotism in Poland has resulted in increased demand for military classes in high schools. The BBC joined one student, Doris for field training and combat lessons. Philippine court jails officers for drug war murder A Philippine court finds three police officers guilty of murdering a 17-year-old high school student last year, as part of President Rodrigo Duterte's war on drugs. B.C. school board provides free menstrual products A British Columbia school board believes it is one of the first in the country to provide free feminine hygiene products in washrooms. Members of the New Westminster school board debated and unanimously passed a motion Tuesday night. Starting in S... B.C. school board provides free menstrual products A British Columbia school board believes it is one of the first in the country to provide free feminine hygiene products in washrooms. Members of the New Westminster school board debated and unanimously passed a motion Tuesday night. Starting in S... High school and university students protest in Paris Several hundred high school students are joined by university students at the Place Saint Michel in Paris to protest education reforms, including changes to crucial end-of-high school exams and access to higher education. Spurned advances may have provoked Texas shooting A teenaged boy who shot and killed eight students and two teachers in Texas had been spurned by one of his victims after making aggressive advances, her mother told the Los Angeles Times. Celebrity Closeup: Octavia Spencer Octavia Spencer grew up in Montgomery, Alabama, the sixth of seven kids in her large family. She was in the drama club in high school, then at college studied English and journalism as well as theatre. Study shows vaping boom in teens Twice as many high school students used nicotine-tinged electronic cigarettes this year compared with last year, an unprecedented jump in a large annual survey of teen smoking, drinking and drug use. French police arrest hundreds of students across the country French students have been blocking access to high schools across France in protest of President Emmanuel Macron's education reforms. #France #Franceprotests #giletsjaunes #Macron Drake still texts his high school teacher Drake has revealed he still texts his high school teacher - despite dropping out of school to pursue his career - as she congratulated him for his recent chart success. Striking Oakland teachers rally, march downtown About 3,000 teachers in Oakland, California, are striking over pay, class sizes and other issues, following educator walkouts in West Virginia, Los Angeles and Denver. The Oakland strike affects 36,000 students at 86 schools. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. Very concerning: NSW teacher accused of grooming student February, 2019. NSW Police Detective Inspector Mick Haddow speaking to media in Sydney about a NSW high school teacher who has been accused of indecently assaulting a 15-year-old student. Haddow says it is very concerning and urged parents and children to talk more openly about the dangers of grooming by those in positions of power. Oakland teachers on strike, demand big pay raises Oakland's 3,000 teachers, who want a 12 percent raise, say are they're among the lowest paid public school teachers in the expensive San Francisco Bay Area. Oakland teachers back in class after strike ends Thousands of Oakland teachers are back in classrooms after union members voted to approve a contract deal giving them 11 percent raises. Denver teachers, officials hopeful deal is near Teachers walked picket Iines as talks to end a three-day teacher’s strike in Denver resumed Wednesday. Both sides returned to the bargaining table hopeful that a settlement could be reached. What's changed with school league tables? Robert Cuffe, BBC News head of statistics, explains new-style secondary school league tables for England.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.