More than 200 Grade 11 learners from Thandokhulu High School were hands on a business establishing project during Metro Kickstarz programme hosted by Metropolitan on Friday 1 March. The programme ran for over three days and learners were equipped with financial management and entrepreneurship skills. After a series of workshops, learners were then encouraged to form groups and come up with a unique sneaker business idea. Metropolitan’s Patronella Sono says they ran the programme at 10 different schools nationally and five in the province. Their aim is to give learners a life skill that they have not learned within the curriculum. They work with Grade 11s since they are about to go varsity and they want to equip them with financial skills, preparing them for “real-world out there”. Sono said having been exposed to these skills a year prior leaving high school allows the learners to learn and to adapt into a new financial management strategy, “hopefully” taking into consideration the lessons from the programme. “We teach them about budgeting, debt- because there is good and bad debt, savings, and we are also teaching them about leaving home and starting a business,” said Sono. Metro Kickstarz has been running for four years, coming up with attractive ideas to be used to challenge learners. Sono says learners love sneakers “hence we came up with this idea. We challenged them to create their designs and do a pitch. They loved the idea and did very well.” The challenge saw learners forming 20 groups which were then voted for by the school to narrow down the entries to six which then went to the finals. A panel of judges selected best performing group in terms of design, presenting skills and knowledge of the financial skills. Flex N Chill walked away as the winners. The group’s sneaker was described as a creative design with graffiti and spray paint. Learner Siphokazi Nkqayi said they created the design specifically for teenagers and made it “fashion trendy” to make it relevant to the 21st century. Another learner Chumani Mbontsela said the programme inspired him to become an entrepreneur . To wrap up the event, Sono congratulated the winners and said they would be awarded their prize of a personalised sneaker according to their design. Sono then handed over a R20 000 check to the school as a token of appreciation for good relations over the past three years they have been working together. School principal Jimmie de Villiers said it was amazing to watch learners taking the project seriously and creatively working in teams to implement what they had learned.