Pelane Phakgadi Venezuelans swarm sewage drains in desperate search of water Venezuelans are collecting water from sewage drains in Caracas as Venezuela's nationwide blackout has left homes without water. People collect water from an open pipe above the Guaire River during rolling blackouts, which affects the water pumps in people's homes, offices and stores, in Caracas, Venezuela. (Fernando Llano, AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The US
has denounced South Africa's stance on the political crisis in Venezuela as
"disappointing", adding that it is "puzzling", given South
Africa's history and what the Venezuelan people are going through. South
Africa is one of three countries that voted against a US resolution to back
self-proclaimed acting Venezuelan president Juan Guaido. In
January, Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Lindiwe Sisulu
affirmed South Africa's stance, recognising Nicolas Maduro as Venezuela's
rightful leader. She used
the vote against the US resolution at the United Nations to declare Maduro
president. Venezuela parliament declares state of 'alarm' over blackout Venezuela's opposition-dominated National Assembly declares a state of "national alarm" over the "general calamity" caused by a blackout that has now lasted four days. South
Africa sided with China, Cuba, Nicaragua and Russia. Russia
and South Africa recently assumed a non-permanent seat in the council. READ: SA expected to block US move at UN meeting to recognise
Juan Guaido as the leader of Venezuela Assistant
Secretary of State for the Bureau of African Affairs in the US, Tibor Nagy,
said "South Africa [was] important to the US, [and it was] looking forward
to deepening partnerships with [it]". On Venezuela, South Africa's stance is disappointing. One of three countries to vote against our resolution. States are sovereign -- bottom line. Given South Africa's history, and given what the Venezuelan people are going through, this stance is puzzling. #AFHubPress  Nagy held
a telephonic press briefing on Monday, previewing Deputy Secretary of State
John Sullivan's upcoming travels to South Africa and Angola. Sullivan
is expected to visit South Africa to discuss bilateral ties, young leaders,
land reform and the upcoming elections. He will
then head to Luanda in Angola to discuss bilateral issues and US-Angola
strategic dialogue, as well as environmental issues. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by
subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter AP Top Stories March 12 Here's the latest for Tuesday March 12th: US pulling remaining embassy staff from Venezuela; More countries ground Boeing 737 Max 8; White House budget would push deficit past $1 Trillion; Mixed Marshal Arts fighter Conor McGregor arrested. Pompeo accuses Cuba, Russia of propping up Maduro U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is lashing out at Cuba and Russia for continuing to support Venezuelan leader Nicolas Maduro, saying they are contributing to his country's economic crisis. Frustration rises as Venezuela's blackout hits fifth day Furious Venezuelans lined up to buy water and fuel on Monday as the country endured a fifth day of a nationwide blackout that has left already-scarce food rotting in shops, homes suffering for lack of water and cell phones without reception. Groups of armed men on motorbikes roam Venezuela capital Groups of armed men on motorbikes roam the streets of Venezuela's capital, firing weapons at people, witnesses said, and tearing down barricades, as the country continues to struggle under a catastrophic power outage. Venezuela's Guaido to call for national state of emergency Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaido announces that he will ask the National Assembly to declare a national state of emergency in the country, following a crippling power outage and mounting protests. Venezuelans suffer from extended power cut "We're tired of not having electricity, we're tired of not having food, we're tired of repression."
Venezuelans are taking to the roadside in Caracas hoping to communicate with their loved ones during the country's "worst-ever blackout" in recent ... Maduro blames the United States as power cuts grip Venezuela Medical NGO “Doctors for Health”  reports that at least 17 hospital patients have died as a direct result of the blackouts. Venezuela's Maduro says cyber attack prevented power restoration Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro claims that a new cyber attack had prevented authorities from restoring power throughout the country following a blackout on Thursday that caused chaos. Venezuela's Maduro arrives for anti-imperialist rally Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro arrives for a rally he called against "imperialism" as thousands cheer, at the same time as opposition supporters were protesting at a dueling rally called by leader Juan Guaido. Tension mounts in Venezuela over rival protests Tension is mounting in the Venezuelan capital Caracas amid calls by the rival political camps for protests. Venezuela's Guaido addresses crowd at opposition rally Juan Guaido addresses thousands of people at an opposition rally in the Venezuelan capital, at the same time as thousands of others were gathered at a dueling rally against "imperialism" called by President Nicolas Maduro. Protesters, police clash as Venezuela blackout lingers Venezuelan opposition activists scuffled with police and troops on Saturday in the run-up to a rally intended to keep up pressure on President Nicolas Maduro, as much of the country remained darkened by the worst blackout in decades.  Conway G. Venezuela police clash with protesters Riot police in the capital, Caracas, clash with opposition supporters in a day of rival demonstrations. Venezuela remains virtually paralyzed day after blackout More than 24 hours after a sweeping electricity blackout crippled Venezuela, streets remain virtually empty in the capital of the crisis-wracked country, with many stores and the metro system shuttered. Opposition supporters gather in Venezuela capital for rally Opposition supporters start to gather in Venezuela's capital after leader Juan Guaido called for protests but riot police blocked protesters from accessing the street in east Caracas where their demonstration is due to take place. Venezuela blackout goes into second day closing schools and workplaces Blackouts caused by power cuts closed schools and workplaces in Venezuela. Massive blackout left Venezuela in darkness A massive blackout left Caracas and vast regions of Venezuela in the darkness, shops had to close and people had to walk long distances because buses were full. Venezuela shuts schools, businesses during blackout Venezuela shut schools and suspended working hours on Friday after the capital Caracas and other major cities awoke without electricity for a second day due to a problem that struck the South American country’s main hydroelectric plant. Lights go out across Venezuela Large parts of the crisis-hit country have been hit by an electricity blackout. US freelance journalist detained in Venezuela arrives in Miami American freelance journalist Cody Weddle returns to the US after being detained in Venezuela by Nicholas Maduro’s regime. Journalist detained in Venezuela now back in US A U.S. journalist was seized by security forces at his apartment Wednesday amid Venezuela's escalating political turmoil, has been released and arrived in the U.S. Thursday afternoon. AP Top Stories March 7 Here's the latest for Thursday, March 7th: Michael Cohen sues President Trump for unpaid legal bills; U.S. says no plans to intervene militarily in Venezuela; Philadelphia bans cashless stores; and scientists say they've discovered a new type of k... Maas says Venezuela's expulsion of ambassador 'incomprehensible' German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas says Venezuela's expulsion of German ambassador Daniel Kriener over his backing of opposition leader Juan Guaido is "incomprehensible", and that it would not change their support for him. Venezuela expels German ambassador Daniel Kriener for meddling German ambassador to Venezuela, Daniel Kriener, has been expelled and given 48 hours to leave the country. Venezuela's Guaido arrives for meeting with union leaders Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaido arrives for a meeting with union leaders, a day after returning to the country following a Latin American tour, defying the threat of arrest from embattled President Nicolas Maduro's government. AP Top Stories March 4 Here's the latest for Monday March 4th: Deadly tornado that hit Alabama was EF4; Avalanche danger high in Colorado following slide; Opposition leader Juan Guaido back in Venezuela; and actor Luke Perry has died. A defiant Guaido returns home to Venezuela Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaido arrived at Caracas’ airport on Monday after flouting a court-imposed travel ban by touring Latin American countries to boost support for his campaign to oust President Nicolas Maduro. Venezuela's Guaido climbs up a scaffold to greet supporters Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaido climbs up a scaffold to wave at thousands of flag-waving supporters in Caracas. Guaido back in Venezuela to challenge Maduro Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaido has arrived back in Venezuela to renew his campaign to topple the government of President Nicolas Maduro. Venezuela's Juan Guaido arrives at Caracas square Venezuela's opposition leader Juan Guaido waves and greets thousands of cheering supporters at a square in eastern Caracas, after defying the threat of arrest to return home. Venezuela's Guaido returns home to lead protests Following a tour of Latin American nations, Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaido has returned to Caracas to lead new protests against President Nicolas Maduro. Venezuela's Juan Guaido arrives at Caracas International Airport Venezuela's opposition leader Juan Guaido arrives at Caracas international airport where he is met by cheering supporters. Leader Juan Guaido arrives for opposition rally in Caracas Venezuela's opposition leader Juan Guaido arrives at a rally of thousands of supporters in Caracas after returning to the country, defying the threat of arrest from embattled President Nicolas Maduro's regime. Demonstrators rally to support Juan Guaido's return to Venezuela Hundreds of demonstrators arrive at a rally in Caracas after Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaido called for mass protests against President Nicolas Maduro -- as the self-declared interim president prepared to return after a week touring Latin... Venezuela's Guaido gives presser in Buenos Aires Venezuela's opposition leader Juan Guaido makes an appereance in Argentina as he continues a tour of regional allies to rally international support. Venezuelan migrants give Argentine baseball a boost In a country where football is king, baseball is receiving a welcome boost from talented Venezuelans who have settled in Argentina, escaping from the hyperinflation and lack of food and medication in their crisis-ridden country. Venezuela's Guaido arrives in Paraguay Venezuela opposition leader Juan Guaido arrives in Asuncion to meet the Paraguayan President Mario Abdo, as he looks to reinforce international backing for his challenge to the leadership of socialist Nicolas Maduro. Venezuelans turn to trash for food as crisis continues As the crisis in Venezuela wages on, many in the country have turned to scavenging for food in trash cans and garbage trucks. Russia's Lavrov meets Venezuelan Vice President in Moscow Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and Venezuelan Vice President Delcy Rodriguez meet in Moscow for talks on Venezuela's political crisis. AP Top Stories February 28 Here's the latest for Thursday, February 28th: North Korea disputes President Trump's account of abrupt summit ending; Russia and China veto US resolution on Venezuela; Venezuela interim president in Brazil; George H.W. Bush's dog to help wounded ... Chaos turns to uncertainty at Venezuela border Venezuela's blockaded border forces local people to use illegal trails to cross the Venezuela-Colombia border to reach the schools and shops they depend on. People use illegal trails to cross the Colombia-Venezuela border People use illegal trails to cross between Colombia and Venezuela, as the border bridges between the two countries remain closed. This alternative is mainly used by Venezuelans, who cross into the neighboring country to buy food and medicines and ... Venezuela's Guaido meets EU ambassadors in Brasilia Venezuela's opposition leader Juan Guaido meets with ambassadors at the European Union headquarters in Brasilia, during his visit to Brazil for talks aimed at securing more support from President Jair Bolsonaro. Government supporters demonstrate in pro-Maduro rally in Caracas Thousands of people demonstrate in support of Venezuela's president Nicolas Maduro and his government in Caracas, after four people were killed and hundreds injured as Guaido supporters clashed with Venezuelan security forces on the borders with C... Traders at Colombia Venezuela border worried about shut down Many shops are closed near the Colombian border with Venezuela as traders are concerned about their business as the border has been shut since clashes broke out over the weekend. Government supporters attend pro-Maduro rally in Caracas Government supporters gather in Caracas, Venezuela, for a pro-Nicolas Maduro rally, after four people were killed and hundreds injured as Guaido supporters clashed with Venezuelan security forces on the borders with Colombia and Brazil over the we... Simon Bolivar Colombia-Venezuela border bridge remains closed The Simon Bolivar International Bridge between Colombia and Venezuela remains closed, with containers blocking the way and security forces guarding both sides. United States denies Russian  accusations of planning military intervention in Venezuela The United States has denied Russian  accusations of planning military intervention in Venezuela, despite President Trump saying that "all options were still on the table."   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.