Sesona Ngqakamba Police. (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Police are investigating a case of murder after a three-year-old boy was found dead at a dump site in the Germiston suburb of Primrose, Ekurhuleni. According to police spokesperson Kay Makhubele, a missing person's case was reported at the Primrose police station at around 21:00 on Saturday, following the disappearance of the toddler. The child's body was found at the dump site on Sunday. "Then a case of murder was opened and the suspects were traced," Makhubele said. Two boys – aged seven and eight – were questioned and released into the care of their parents. SowetanLive reported that the boys had confessed that, on Sunday afternoon, they had assaulted the toddler with stones, tied him up with a rope and pushed him down a mountain-like slide. The paper reported that, after the two had slid down themselves, they noticed that the toddler had a cut on his head. Makhubele said the police were still investigating the circumstances of the incident.  WATCH: Alex hero saves stranded child A video of a man slowly shimmying his way across the Jukskei River to rescue a child stuck midway on a pipe has gone viral on social media. WATCH: Paarl Boys' students appear to support staffers accused of using corporal punishment Being hit against the head for not greeting. The "five-star treatment" on your back when your homework isn't done. Spanking with a cricket bat - all in the name of "discipline". WATCH: Brick slinging man attacks cops An Mpumalanga man is under police guard in hospital after being shot and injured by police at a school. WATCH: More than 170 left homeless after fire rages through Alexandra Over 100 shacks were destroyed by a fire in Alexandra north of Johannesburg on Tuesday afternoon. WATCH: Grief, anger as Durban community mourns teenagers killed by taxi Grief-stricken Newlands East residents became enraged on Wednesday after a minibus taxi ran into four secondary school pupils in Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, killing three. WATCH: Family 'can't cope' with Sibusiso Khwinana murder The family of murdered Matwetwe lead actor Sibusiso Khwinana said they are saddened by his passing.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.