Riaan Grobler A mother and her young child were knocked over by the mum's own car outside a school in Welbekend, Pretoria, at around 14:00 on Thursday. According to Netcare 911 spokesperson Nick Dollman, reports from the scene indicate that the mum had gone to the school to collect her other children. "She and her toddler were waiting on the grass area when the handbrake of their vehicle allegedly failed and the vehicle rolled forward and ran over the two." Dollman said the mum and the little boy sustained serious injuries and were attended to by a Netcare 911 advanced life support paramedic. "Once stabilised, they were transported quickly to hospital for the specialised care that they required," Dollman said.  Mom and toddler hospitalised after allegedly being run over by their vehicle outside her children's school, Pretoria https://t.co/SvE5UBcaGG #ArriveAlive @Netcare911_sa pic.twitter.com/7Rr5ssZ34K TSHWANE: A mom and her toddler have been hospitalised with serious injuries after allegedly being run over by their vehicle outside a school when the handbrake failled.@_ArriveAlive @News24 @ewnupdates @JacaNews @jour_maine @FatalMoves pic.twitter.com/F8HCwKe06w  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Roaring trade for some small businesses amidst load shedding gloom Last Sunday Eskom implemented load shedding for the first time since December 2019. While this has resulted in major inconvenience and loss of income for ordinary South Africans and most businesses, some are seeing a sharp increase in trade as a dire WATCH: Bushiri 'a true man of god' - supporters Hundreds of devoted supporters of embattled self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri gathered outside court again on Wednesday to show their support. Watch. WATCH: Hundreds of Bushiri supporters picket outside court Hundreds of supporters of self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri gathered outside the Commercial Crimes Court in Pretoria on Monday morning. 

Bushiri and his wife appeared briefly after being arrested on Friday for fraud and money laundering. S.Africa's EFF party supporters arrive ahead of Manifesto launch Supporters of South Africa's far-left Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) arrive at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve, Pretoria, ahead of the party's manifesto launch. WATCH: 'EFF is the only alternative' - supporter at manifesto launch Hundreds have filled Giant Stadium in Shoshanguve, north of Pretoria ahead of the Economic Freedom Fighters manifesto launch. WATCH: Thieves steal Diesel watches from Pretoria shop A Pretoria business has appealed to twitter following the brazen theft of four Diesel watches worth R 4000 each out of a locked display. WATCH: Pretoria West streets gridlocked as residents burn tyres and block roads Motorists and commuters have been warned to avoid several parts of Pretoria West on Thursday owing to protest action that started in the early hours of the morning. 'Our rail system has gone to the dogs' - DA protests at Prasa offices The Democratic Alliance held a picket outside the offices of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA) in Hatfield, Pretoria on Wednesday. WATCH: Prophet Bushiri takes responsibility for deadly church stampede Prophet Shepherd Bushiri on Monday appeared at the CRL Rights Commission hearing looking into the stampede that claimed three lives at the Enlightened Christian Gathering Church (ECG) in Pretoria. WATCH: Tshwane mayor visits Pretoria train crash victims' families Tshwane Metro Mayor, Solly Msimanga, visited two families of the deceased from last week's Mountain View train accident.
Msimanga expressed his condolences and offered support with the funeral arrangements. WATCH: Mnangagwa and and his gangster must leave Zimbabwe alone - Zimbabweans Protesters marched to the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria on Wednesday in solidarity with their families who've been affected by the total shutdown in Zimbabwe WATCH: Mnangagwa and and his gangster must leave Zimbabwe alone - Zimbabweans A number of protesters marched to the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria on Wednesday in solidarity with their families who've been affected by the total shutdown in Zimbabwe. WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. SA train collision leaves 600 injured A train collision in South Africa's capital Pretoria kills at least three and injures more than 600. Three killed as trains collide in South Africa Authorities in South Africa say a train collision in Pretoria has killed three people and injured more than 200. The cause of the crash is under investigation. WATCH: Emergency personnel working to free people trapped under collided trains At least three people have been confirmed dead, while scores of others have been left injured following a train collision at Mountain View station, Pretoria on
Tuesday morning. WATCH: Trains collide at Mountain View station in Pretoria One person has been confirmed dead, while scores of others have been left injured following a train collision at Mountain View station, Pretoria on Tuesday morning. WATCH: Police investigate assault at Pretoria pub after owner and employee exchange blows Police are investigating a case of common assault after a man, believed to be an employee of Die Watergat Pub in Pretoria North, was assaulted outside the establishment, presumably by his boss. WATCH: Huge cobra on the loose in Pretoria apartment block's drainage system Residents of a block of flats in Pretoria East are in for a slithery night as a venomous snouted cobra has taken refuge in the drainage system. VIDEO: Activists march 80kms from Marikana to Union Buildings demanding compensation for widows Two groups marched to the Union Buildings in Pretoria on Wednesday. The groups requested President Cyril Ramaphosa receive their memoranda who failed to appear. WATCH.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.