Kamva Somdyala Police (Getty/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The ANC in the Western Cape has expressed shock at the killing of former Vrygrond ANC branch chairperson, Peter Mgutyana, who was shot dead in his home in Muizenberg on Tuesday night. At the time of his death, Mgutyana was the chairperson of the Phumlani Civic Association, a pressure group that has been protesting for decent housing in the Western Cape for the past couple of years. The ANC in the province referred to him as an "admired, dedicated, committed and respected leader". "The news of comrade Mgutyana's death came as a big shock. He was a tireless activist who did not fear confronting gangsters or the City of Cape Town in the interest of his community," said ANC Western Cape secretary Faiez Jacobs. Appeal for calm Mgutyana, according to the ANC, was at the forefront of campaigns for housing. He also had the wellbeing of the youth at heart and, despite threats, had been determined to keep young people out of reach of gangsters. Jacobs appealed for calm in Vrygrond, calling on the police to prioritise the investigation into his murder. "We want to extend our condolences to his family and his community." Western Cape police spokesperson Captain FC van Wyk said circumstances surrounding the incident were still under investigation and that a murder case has been opened. "All possible leads are being followed and there are no arrests as yet," said Van Wyk. He appealed to anyone with information to come forward by contacting police on 021 700 3940 or Crime Stop on 08600 10111.  WATCH: Zille breaks ground on R3bn mixed-income residential project Western Cape Premier Helen Zille said the "pioneering" housing project expected at the site of the derelict old Conradie Hospital in Cape Town could "make or break" the current housing system. WATCH: Armed local farmer walks into demonstration in Greyton Western Cape police are probing an incident involving a man who was caught on camera on Monday, wielding a firearm during a demonstration in Greyton. WATCH: ANC mourns the passing of Mendi Msimang - 'A giant tree has fallen' ANC pays tribute to struggle stalwart and its former treasurer-general Mendi Msimang following his passing at the age of 78. WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Police clash with marchers at ANC demonstration A scuffle ensued between a group wearing Sanco t-shirts and police after fireworks was allegedly fired during an ANC march on Friday to Premier David Makhura's office demanding service delivery. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. WATCH: SS Mendi memorial site does not depict enormity of the tragedy -  Cyril Ramaphosa The South African National Defence Force celebrated Armed Forces Day 2019 on Thursday in Cape Town
The SANDF also honoured the bravery of sons and daughters of our country who lost their lives in the fateful 1917 sinking of the SS Mendi. WATCH: Bakkie goes swimming while trying to pull boat out of the water in Cape Town A man who was pulling a boat out of the water at the Oceana Power Boat Club in Granger Bay, Cape Town, got more than he bargained for at the weekend when his vehicle also had to be towed out of the water. WATCH: Damage to 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard a criminal act – DA The DA has called the damage inflicted on its newly unveiled 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, a 'criminal act'. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. Man targeted in racist rant on Cape Town, South Africa, bus opens criminal case A man has opened a case of crimen injuria after becoming the target of a racist rant on a bus to central Cape Town on Monday morning. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. WATCH: Zille's biggest achievements in her own words Outgoing Western Cape Premier Helen Zille spoke about her 10 year term on the side-lines of a rally to launch the Democratic Alliance's manifesto at the Bellville Velodrome on Sunday. WATCH: 'We are not fighting the ANC' - Mahumapelo ahead of court appearance Former ANC North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo addresses supporters before fighting the NEC decision to disband his PEC at the South Gauteng High Court. WATCH: Cellphone footage shows violent mob justice on Cape Town promenade On Sunday, the Eden on the bay promenade in Big bay, seemed no different than it usually does on a sunny weekend for the most part of the day. Then the end of the day saw the stretch of grass on the promenade turn into a small war zone. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.