Kamva Somdyala (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Electoral Act is not in line with the Constitution as it does not allow individuals to stand for elections without being part of a political party, the Western Cape High Court heard on Thursday. The court is hearing the matter for the rights of individuals to stand for elections which was part of a Constitutional Court judgment in June last year in which Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng noted that there was no reason why any citizen could not stand as an independent candidate to be elected to municipal councils, provincial legislatures or the National Assembly. "The enjoyment of this right has not been proscribed by the Constitution. It is just not facilitated by legislation," Mogoeng noted at the time. Following that part of the judgment, which was the landmark ruling that affirmed the voter's right to be informed about who is funding political parties and independent ward candidates, civic group New Nation Movement wants an amendment of the Electoral Act. WATCH: 10 million eligible voters are unregistered - IEC Almost 10 million South Africans who are eligible to vote are not registered, the Independent Electoral Commission said on Wednesday. Currently, the act makes no provisions on which constituency an independent could represent, or how seats would be allocated in the National Assembly (should a candidate wish to run). The Electoral Act further says that a citizen needs to be a member of a political party to hold national or provincial office, yet the Constitution makes no such demand. "If the rights of individuals, which are enshrined in the Bill of Rights, are being infringed, then we have a constitutional crisis," argued advocate Alan Nelson, who was representing the applicant in the matter. Matter postponed for parties' response Nelson was at pains to point out that individuals be allowed to assume positions in the National Assembly without being part of a political party. But Judge Siraj Desai, who is hearing the matter, felt that political parties in the National Assembly needed to be part of the application as the ruling would have a direct impact on them. "This matter should not be rushed. It must be properly ventilated," said Judge Desai. Bulelani Mkohliswa of the New Nation Movement said he appreciated Desai's concern as it presented an opportunity for consultation with political parties he understands would be directly affected by whatever decision is taken. The matter has been postponed to March 27 to allow for National Assembly political parties to respond to whether they want to join the application or not. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  PODCAST: ANC and the polls – are the party's leaders even bothered with the upcoming elections? This week on POLOTIKI, yet another ANC leader found himself in the middle of sexual assault claims, EFF leader Julius Malema takes the land question to Newcastle and we peel off another layer of the relationship between the ruling party and Bosasa. WATCH: Mbalula willing to testify at #StateCaptureInquiry Fikile Mbalula on Thursday said he is ready to testify at the state capture inquiry. Inside the ANC's Bosasa election war room Bosasa sponsored these war rooms for the past three elections for the ANC, at an estimated cost of R2-million per election. WATCH: Political party 'slaughters' watermelon on Cape beach in video stunt A small political party has staged a mock sacrifice of a watermelon on a Cape Town beach in response to the slaughter of a sheep in December. WATCH: Political parties say they are ready for the coming elections Political parties say that they are ready for the coming elections. Speaking to News24 at the IEC elections launch at the Gallagher Convention Centre, the leaders also urged those eligible to vote to go register on January 26 and 27. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: A News24 2018 Festive Season special - politicians 'sing' All I Want For Christmas Is You News24 thought it apt that some of South Africa's politicians bring you a little festive cheer. Togo: thousands protest in bid to stop elections taking place Thousands of people march through the streets of Lomé, responding to a call from the main opposition coalition, demanding that the electoral process be halted before the December 20 legislative elections. The leaders of this group of 14 opposition...   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.