Kyle Cowan WATCH: Bosasa liquidator takes charge of documents, servers Bosasa liquidator Cloete Murray on Friday took charge at the company's headquarters in Krugersdorp following their voluntary liquidation. Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson with former president Jacob Zuma. (File photo, supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg has declared the special resolutions that was taken by Bosasa's board to place the company into voluntary liquidation null and void.On February 12, the company's board voluntarily placed the company under liquidation. Soon after, liquidators Cloete Murray, Ralph Lutchman and Tania Oosthuizen among others were appointed to run the company.The court has also declared that the liquidators must surrender control of the company back to its directors within 12 hours. Just in: The Joburg High Court has ruled in favour of Bosasa, and has issued an order effectively reversing the liquidation process undertaken. Liquidators have 12 hours to surrender control of company back to Gavin Watson and others. @TeamNews24 Judge Joolan Ameer is presiding. This should be quite interesting. Is an argument that "we didn't know what we were signing" by the Bosasa board a strong enough argument? Let's see. @TeamNews24 More to follow WATCH: Striking Bosasa workers didn't know about liquidation Workers employed by facilities management company Bosasa, now known as African Global Operations, staged a demonstration outside its Mogale City head office on Monday - minutes after the company announced its voluntary liquidation. ANALYSIS: In a way this is the end of Bosasa, says Adriaan Basson News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and Opinions Editor Alet Janse van Rensburg unpack the latest developments in the Bosasa scandal, after the company announced it was under voluntary liquidation. Watch. WATCH: Bosasa staff locked out by liquidators Bosasa staff locked out by liquidators WATCH: SARS swoops on Bosasa A team of South African Revenue Service officials arrived at Bosasa's head office shortly after noon on Friday to execute a search and seizure warrant. Inside the ANC's Bosasa election war room Bosasa sponsored these war rooms for the past three elections for the ANC, at an estimated cost of R2-million per election. PODCAST: The depressing budget, Gavin Watson in action... and Eskom AUDIO: This week on POLOTIKI, we had the budget speech and, yes, it was depressing. Video emerged of Bosasa boss Gavin Watson belittling staff, and more explosive testimony at the commission of inquiry into state capture with the spotlight on Eskom. WATCH: Gavin Watson belittles Bosasa staff, talks of his tender 'networks' Gavin Watson,, CEO of Bosasa, tackles staff over mistakes in their work submitting tenders. He mentions one contract worth R800-million which was nearly lost due to such a mistake. The video was taken during a Bosasa 'Imbizo', at Silverstar Casino. Whistleblowers should still come forward says Hawks after Bosasa arrests ormer Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi, former correctional services CFO Patrick Gillingham, and Bosasa official Andries van Tonder, on Wednesday briefly appeared in the dock at the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court. WATCH: Agrizzi, van Tonder and Gillingham appear in dock The Hawks on Wednesday arrested six suspects on allegations of corruption, money laundering and fraud relating to Bosasa. A warrant of arrest has been issued for a seventh suspect.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.