Jenna Etheridge Marius Foot.  (Image via Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Police forensic officials have exhumed the body of a Cape Town man who died two weeks ago after suspicions were raised around the cause of his death. Marius Foot, 65, from Brackenfell, died on February 10 and was buried at the Durbanville Memorial Park cemetery a few days later. His body was exhumed on Thursday morning, Western Cape police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana said. Private investigator Willem van Romburgh was present at the exhumation. He said Foot's family approached him on February 15 because they had problems with his last will and testament and were struggling to get answers on their father's estate. Read: The importance of drafting your last will and testament Van Romburgh raised concerns about the authenticity of the signatures on the document after consulting a handwriting expert. "We confirmed that this needs to be investigated and that police need to get involved. That's when we started digging into things, his medical history and all the rest of it," he told News24 on Friday. R15m estate It is understood that according to Foot's last will and testament, the biggest portion of the estate – consisting of a pension fund and policies – went to one individual. Van Romburgh said he could not divulge who this person was because the investigation was ongoing. "I can say that it didn't go to any of the family members." Netwerk24 reported that Foot, who presumably died from cancer, had an estate worth around R15m. A source close to the investigation told News24 that police were looking at the possibility that Foot was given excessive amounts of cannabis oil, instead of a drop or two, before his death. Rwexana said an autopsy would be conducted to determine the cause of death. Van Romburgh has asked anyone with information to please contact his firm on 073 276 8968 or 082 852 8689. WATCH: IPID denies timing of Phahlane's arrest is 'suspicious' Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) Spokesperson Moses Dlamini has denied allegations that Khomotso Phahlane's arrest was a show for the media. WATCH: Mbalula willing to testify at #StateCaptureInquiry Fikile Mbalula on Thursday said he is ready to testify at the state capture inquiry. 1 out of 3 conference delegates come back to SA for a holiday, bringing their family and friends Leisure incentive travel is relatively small for South Africa and the continent as a whole, as a result it is the major congresses and conferences that really matter, says South African Tourism Minister Derek Hanekom. WATCH: Magistrate browses on phone as stenographer sleeps Goodwood Magistrate Sean Lea was secretly filmed by a person in court, while he was casually scrolling through his smartphone. WATCH: Home affairs officials caught on their phones as people queue to be helped The Department of Home Affairs has said it will investigate after officials were filmed using their cellphones while on duty. WATCH: Police investigate assault at Pretoria pub after owner and employee exchange blows Police are investigating a case of common assault after a man, believed to be an employee of Die Watergat Pub in Pretoria North, was assaulted outside the establishment, presumably by his boss.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.