Kaveel Singh WATCH: Fire damages Cogta offices in Durban The provincial offices of the Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) in Durban were set alight in the early hours of Thursday morning. The KwaZulu-Natal cooperative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) department has condemned a suspected arson attack on its offices in Mayville, Durban. The attack on Thursday morning burned the offices to the ground. "This is a direct sabotage of the state infrastructure which ends up having dire consequences on innocent residents who rely on government services such as the ones provided by our department," MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube said. The offices were previously attacked on Tuesday by protesters who apparently hurled petrol bombs, causing minor damage. Protests over land are thought to be the source of the violence with roads previously blocked and cars attacked. Cogta's Durban offices were burnt to the ground in a suspected arson attack (Supplied) Dube-Ncube said the reasons behind the attack were "unknown but are believed to be related to a public protest by informal settlement dwellers and land invaders due to government's crackdown on lawlessness". "We are calling upon law enforcement agencies to leave no stone unturned in their pursuit of the perpetrators of this dastardly deed. "The Mayville offices house sections of the department's administration and [are] believed to have been a random target," she said. Previous robbery Dube-Ncube said the same offices were robbed by a group of armed gunmen last November. They stole several television screens and computers from the building. The gunmen also hijacked a KwaZulu-Natal Cogta employee's vehicle which was later recovered in Newlands. "This attack which took place in the early hours of this morning (Thursday) is a serious threat to the safety of our staff members who have already gone through a lot. The MEC further called upon surrounding communities to come forward with any information that could lead to the apprehension of suspects. "[They] should be made an example of so as to deter others from destroying state property." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: More than 170 left homeless after fire rages through Alexandra Over 100 shacks were destroyed by a fire in Alexandra north of Johannesburg on Tuesday afternoon. WATCH: Firefighters battle blaze in Franschhoek mountains Firefigthers have been battling a large blaze in the Franschhoek mountains since Monday, when it broke out in the Mooiwater area. WATCH: Mountain blaze breaks out in Camps Bay Firefighters responded to a blaze that erupted in The Glen area of Camps Bay on Thursday afternoon. Watch. WATCH: Pet dog dies in Sea Point apartment block blaze A Sea Point apartment was destroyed in a high-rise fire that was put out before it spread to the rest of the building on Wednesday. WATCH: Fire engulfs Lion's Head Families living in Sea Point, Cape Town evacuated their homes on Sunday evening as the flames that engulfed the lower slopes of Lion's Head near Quarry Hill were coming down on them. WATCH: Video shows razed homes after fire sweeps through Hartenbos, Mossel Bay Two houses have been destroyed in a blaze in Mossel Bay's Hartenbos Heuwels. WATCH: Fire rescue Bambi trotting on the road to recovery At just a few months old, a rescued baby Cape Grysbok has touched the hearts of the many residents of the Cape overstrand area, which has recently been underthreat by a devastating fire for two weeks. WATCH: Betty's Bay fire victim shares heartbreaking experience of the blaze A Betty's Bay resident has spoken out about the trauma of losing her home in a fire that raged through the town at the weekend. WATCH: At least 31 houses destroyed in Overstrand wildfires; video shows devastation in Betty's Bay At least 31 houses have been completely destroyed and 28 partially damaged by wildfires on the coastal Overstrand region in the Western Cape. WATCH: Cape pupil awarded for matriculating after surviving deadly fire Lance Minnies came close to losing his life in a deadly 2016 fire and almost gave up on his studies when he recovered. But it was the hope for a better future and the support of caring people at his school that pulled him through. WATCH: Western Cape firefighters end gruelling day with uplifting song A group of firefighters returned to their base at the Crassula hall in Betty's Bay on Friday, with song and dance.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.