Kamva Somdyala SA police. (Antonio Muchave, Gallo Images, Sowetan, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Police management in KwaZulu-Natal have condemned the posting of a video clip on social media in which a real-life domestic violence situation is re-enacted. According to KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson, Brigadier Jay Naicker, the re-enactment forms part of a module for domestic violence training that police officers are mandated to attend. "It is suspected that a police official who might have attended this training intervention at our Durban training centre last year could be responsible for recording this scene and posting the clip online," said Naicker. READ #BabesWodumo: We shouldn't ask 'Why didn't she leave?' but 'Why didn't he stop?' - gender violence specialist 'Please continue to support them' - Babe Wodumo's father to parents of abuse victims On Tuesday Bongekile Simelane's parents spoke on her behalf at a press conference as she was too ill to be there. In the video, the male police officer is seen allegedly striking a female officer on her face. His back is toward the camera, so contact can't be seen, but a sound can be heard. He then takes his seat as the female officer walks out and says: "Fuck you". Twitter users Onlookers in the classroom show very little reaction. "We are indeed perturbed and believe that this individual [who posted the video online] was extremely malicious because of the timing of the release of the video." Although Naicker requested members of the public to refrain from posting the clip, it is already going viral on social media platforms. Some have reacted with shock on Twitter. One user said: Unacceptable whatever the objectives or reasons. Period". Another called for the policeman to be fired "as the supposed upholder of the law, breaking the law, his punishment should be severe". Naicker added: "Whilst it is clear from the classroom setup that this is a training session, some may not immediately realise that and will be disturbed by what they see." He confirmed that police management in KwaZulu-Natal have launched an investigation to establish the identify the perpetrator and ensure that he or she is brought to book in internal disciplinary regulations. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Simon Cowell loves TV detective show Columbo Simon Cowell has revealed he has become obsessed with watching TV crime show 'Columbo', which starred Peter Falk as a homicide detective with the Los Angeles Police Department. WATCH: Burning tyres, logs and truck light up Howick sky KwaZulu-Natal police say the violent protest that forced the closure of the N3 in the vicinity of Howick in KZN Midlands on Thursday night was sparked by the arrest of community members who had allegedly invaded a private property in the area. Ex-Minneapolis cop arrives in court ahead of trial A former Minneapolis police officer charged in the 2017 shooting death of an unarmed Australian woman appeared in court Friday, as attorneys for both sides argued several issues in his case. AP Top Stories February 13 Here's the latest for Wednesday February 13th: Trump not happy with border security plan; Friendly fire kills NYC police detective; China trade talks underway ahead of possible tariff hike; Joaquin 'El Chapo' Guzman convicted. 50 Cent seeking legal advice after learning New York Cop told detectives to shoot him on sight 50 Cent is reportedly considering legal action after learning he was allegedly targeted by a New York Police Department boss. Woman says she aided man charged in fiance's death A woman admitted Friday that she helped thwart an investigation into the disappearance of a Colorado woman who authorities believe was killed by her fiance, but her motive and the nature of her relationship with the suspect remains a mystery. India Mourns its martyrs Families mourned the death of Central Reserve Police Force jawans martyred in Pulwama terror attack. They struggled to comprehend the loss of their family members. There were scenes of grief and despair as families awaited the mortal remains. Police officers fight robber at Horsham Tesco Express A man has been jailed for more than 10 years after an armed robbery at a Tesco Express in Horsham and an assault on a police officer in the store's car park. US man being fired kills five co-workers, wounds five police A US man being fired from his job shot dead five co-workers at a factory on the outskirts of Chicago and wounded five police officers before being gunned down himself, in the country's latest mass shooting. Several skiers buried in Swiss avalanche Valais cantonal police confirmed on Twitter that an avalanche occurred at around 2.15pm, leaving “several people buried”. Meet Hello Kitty's biggest fan A former police officer in Japan has a collection worth a quarter of a million dollars. Police office rescues bear from dumpster A bear cub has been reunited with its mother thanks to a police officer in Northern California who colleagues are calling a "bear whisperer." House fire kills three young siblings in Indiana Three young siblings were killed and their mother was injured trying to save them from a house fire in Tell City, Indiana 911 calls reflect chaotic Wisconsin highway pileup A Wisconsin sheriff’s department releases video and still images as well as 911 recordings that reflect a chaotic scene during a 131-vehicle highway pileup NYC mayor: slain officer 'gave his life for us' The NYPD is mourning a detective killed by friendly fire as officers confronted a robbery suspect who turned out to be armed with a replica handgun. Mayor Bill de Blasio said Detective Brian Simonsen, 42, "gave his life for us." May says police numbers not to blame for knife crime rise Theresa May played down the role of police cuts in knife crime rises. 'Treat knife crime like terrorism' says former minister 'Treat knife crime like terrorism' says former policing minister Pulwama terror attack Angry BTown condemns this cowardly act Terror attack in which 43 Central Reserve Police Force CRPF troopers were killed in Jammu and Kashmirs Pulwama district on Thursday terming it a cowardly act Filmstars like Akshay Kumar Priyanka Chopra Ranveer Singh and Abhishek Bachchan took to t... 16 Labor MPs exonerated in Red Shirts affair - 2 still under investigation DC Shane Patton of the Victoria Police says that 16 Labor MPs have been exonerated for their role in the Red Shirts affair, but that two former Labor MPs are still under investigation. The women trying to keep Somalia safe Being a police officer in Mogadishu is one of the most dangerous beats in the world, and it is even harder for women. Police hunt Italian Job-style shopping centre raiders Police have likened CCTV footage of thieves driving through a shopping centre to a scene out of 1960s crime caper The Italian Job.

The raiders smashed their way into the Forum Shopping Centre in Wallsend, North Tyneside, at around 4.10am on Janua... 1.3 tonnes of ephedrine seized by AFP working with Chinese law enforcement The Australian Federal Police and Border Force have seized 1,300 kilograms of the drug precursor ephedrine during an investigation into an organised crime syndicate. AFP says that with the Mexican meth seizure, Victoria's yearly share of ice consu... Reporter - Police Violence in the Slums of Nairobi Nineteen-year-old Brian was shot dead in broad daylight in the Kayole slum in Kenya. The Kenyan police are killing suspected criminals in an underground war against crimes - as many as 3,000 in the last year. WATCH: 'There's no outbreak of salmonella in KZN' – health department tries to quell fears There have been a number of laboratory-confirmed cases of salmonella in Durban but there is no "outbreak" of infections in the province, KwaZulu-Natal health authorities said on Monday. Indonesian police apologises after using snake to extract confession from suspect Indonesian police apologised after a video circulating on social media showed officers using a snake to extract a confession from a suspect. Arizona man hit with Taser 11 times, lawsuit filed An Arizona man is suing a suburban Phoenix police department for excessive force after he claims officers used a Taser on him 11 times, including purposefully on his testicles. The Glendale Police Department denies most of the claims. Texas girl with cancer sworn in as police officer A 6-year-old Houston-area girl who's battling cancer has had her dream come true of being sworn in as a Texas police officer. WATCH: IPID probe case of police brutality after woman's arrest The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) is investigating a case of police brutality after a Pretoria West woman was pulled by her hair and violently shoved into a police van. Eleven taxi drivers shot dead in South Africa Gunmen shot dead 11 taxi drivers returning to Johannesburg from the funeral of a colleague in Kwa-Zulu Natal. Policeman being attacked by bull! Bull attacking police officer. Policeman Shoots Bear Out Of Car A US Police officer released a bear trapped in a car by shooting out the back window. Video: Officers catch Texas boy jumping from fire A police officer's body camera caught the moment a boy jumped from the second floor of a Dallas-area apartment into the arms of officers below. Firefighters arrived with a ladder a short time later, so the boy's mother could climb down. WATCH: Two of these KZN home invaders were killed by police Two suspects from the notorious "Mercedes Gang" were killed in a shoot-out with police while robbing a home in Durban North on Tuesday. Two police officers killed after gunmen storm Karachi Chinese Consulate Two policemen are killed as gunmen storm the Chinese Consulate in Karachi. Authorities say the attackers opened fire at consulate guards before breaching the main gate. The three gunmen who stormed were then shot dead by police. WATCH: Three Durban schoolchildren die after being hit by a taxi Three schoolchildren have been killed and another is in a serious condition after they were struck by a minibus taxi on Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, KwaZulu-Natal. Restless squirrel gives US police officer the runaround A restless squirrel gives a police officer in Illinois a fright when it accidentally made its way into the police department. Nathan Fillion on his new series: ‘People love cop shows’ Actor Nathan Fillion says he could never be a police officer in real life, because the stakes on the job are too high. Fillion plays the Los Angeles Police Department’s oldest newbie in his new TV series “The Rookie.” New York police officers take on skipping challenge Two officers show off their skipping skills as they compete against each other in New York. Yonkers Police Department posted the video of their officers skipping with members of the community. Squirrel steals doughnut off a policeman in Alaska A squirrel decides to steal a doughnut off a policeman from the Anchorage Police Department in Alaska. Security guard killed by police, mother sues The mother of Jemel Roberson, an armed security guard who was shot and killed by a police officer while working at a Chicago bar, has filed a federal lawsuit alleging excessive force. WATCH: Newborn found in bin might get a new lease on life An abandoned KwaZulu-Natal newborn found in the bin might soon have a new place to call home. Watch. WATCH: Home affairs officials caught on their phones as people queue to be helped The Department of Home Affairs has said it will investigate after officials were filmed using their cellphones while on duty. WATCH: Ramaphosa handing over 4 586 hectares of land to a KZN community President Cyril Ramaphosa handed over more than 4000 hectares of land to the KwaMkhwanazi community in Empangeni, northern KwaZulu-Natal on Sunday. Chris Froome responds angrily at police officer who pulled him off his bike Chris Froome swears at a policeman who thought he was a fan and pulled him off his bike on his way to the Team Sky bus at the end of stage 17 of the Tour de France. WATCH: Police arrest KZN man who threatened to blow up office workers Police have arrested a KwaZulu-Natal man who threatened to blow up office workers with a bomb. WATCH: SAPS escort pupils to matric farewell in Nyala Making an entrance is an extra bonus point when making a statement at a matric farewell. One couple in particular, turned heads when they rocked up in a police Nyala van escorted by police officers at their farewell in Newcastle over the weekend. NSW child groomed online and assaulted in under 24 hours NSW Police Detective Inspector Mick Haddow speaking to media in Sydney about charges against a man over the sexual assault of a teenage boy on Sydney’s northern beaches. The 34-year-old man allegedly went to the home of a 13-year-old boy in Killarney Heights on Wednesday, a day after the pair met on social media, and sexually assaulted the boy. Haddow says the grooming happened in the space of a day and warns parents of the dangers of online communications. He adds the crime has horrendous impacts on the child and his family. WATCH: Durban thieves give up after relentless pursuit by security officers Two suspected thieves were arrested by Marshall Security after they tried to steal a vehicle from Musgrave Road in Berea, Durban.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.