Kamva Somdyala A fire ripped through the town of Wupperthal in December. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Home Affairs Deputy Minister Fatima Chohan will hand over documents to Wupperthal residents affected by a fire that ripped through the town on December 30, destroying half of the historical village, including the Moravian Mission Station, shops and dozens of homes. One woman died and 200 people were left homeless, News24 reported at the time. Residents said plans were afoot to rebuild the town. A disaster management centre had been set up in an old glove factory to organise relief and rebuilding efforts. Some structures were demolished after they were damaged beyond repair. Affected residents visited the home affairs office in Vredendal late in January to apply for IDs, marriage certificates, death certificates, and other documents lost in the blaze. WATCH | Oasis in Ashes: The day a fire swallowed a town On 30 December 2018 a devastating fire gutted the historical mission station of Wupperthal, destroying scores of properties and robbing the residents of their homes, livelihoods and heritage. Engagement Chohan said the department had deployed staff from other parts of the province to assist with the handover at the Thusong centre in Vredendal on Monday. Chohan will also hold a community engagement with stakeholders to hear various community issues, particularly those that fall within the scope of the department. Last month, the deputy minister met with more than 40 residents of the Wupperthal community, who had applied for documents. A News24 documentary, titled Oasis in Ashes: The day a fire swallowed a town, explored the impact of the disaster and the "indomitable spirit of Wupperthal's people, which has given hope that the picturesque Cederberg town will rise again from the ashes". In the documentary, one resident, Edgar Valentyn said: "You have lost everything you built up over the years. And when you look at what is here now, the reality is just ash and ash."  WATCH: Farming community in George is a ghost town following a fire that claimed 8 lives The farming community of Farleigh in the Southern Cape is a ghost town following a fire that claimed eight lives on Tuesday. Losing everything is heartbreaking - Vrygrond resident The City of Cape Town is conducting assessments on the fire that ravaged through Vrygrond near Muizenberg in Cape Town on Thursday night.

According to the City, the fire started at about 17:30 and up to 120 shacks were destroyed. WATCH: More than 170 left homeless after fire rages through Alexandra Over 100 shacks were destroyed by a fire in Alexandra north of Johannesburg on Tuesday afternoon. WATCH: Firefighters battle blaze in Franschhoek mountains Firefigthers have been battling a large blaze in the Franschhoek mountains since Monday, when it broke out in the Mooiwater area. WATCH: Mountain blaze breaks out in Camps Bay Firefighters responded to a blaze that erupted in The Glen area of Camps Bay on Thursday afternoon. Watch. WATCH: Holy Cross primary in Cape Town on fire Firefighters were called out to Holy Cross RC Primary School in the Cape Town CBD after plumes of smoke were seen emanating from the premises. WATCH: Pet dog dies in Sea Point apartment block blaze A Sea Point apartment was destroyed in a high-rise fire that was put out before it spread to the rest of the building on Wednesday. WATCH- Aerial footage shows Lion's Head fire aftermath Aerial footage shows Lion's Head fire aftermath taken from one of the Working on fire Helicopters WATCH: Video shows razed homes after fire sweeps through Hartenbos, Mossel Bay Two houses have been destroyed in a blaze in Mossel Bay's Hartenbos Heuwels.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.