Buks Viljoen, Correspondent Renthia van Rensburg who was declared dead in August 2017 (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories For more than a year, a 49-year old woman from Onderstepoort near Pretoria, has been struggling to get her life back. In December 2017, Renthia van Rensburg realised there was a problem when her bank account and pension payments were frozen. This was after she resigned as a teacher to take up the full-time responsibility of looking after her disabled son. READ: 'My worst nightmare' - dead woman walking The bank told her the account had been frozen because the Department of Home Affairs (DHA) informed them that she had been declared dead. "I managed to convince the bank that I was very much alive. They then released the money in my account," she said. Frozen again She didn't take steps to investigate the matter further. However, in February 2018, her account was frozen again. "I went to home affairs to try and establish what the problem was. I was then told that I was declared dead on August 25, 2017. I got such a fright that I fainted," she said. Her 12-month nightmare started as she tried to convince the department that she was still very much alive. "All my pleading to staff at the Arcadia offices of DHA fell on deaf ears." After months of frustration she established that there were three death certificates reflected on her profile. "One said I died of unnatural causes and the others indicated that I died due to a heart attack." She was eventually referred to the DHA head office where she was asked to reapply to have her status declared null and void. "I handed in a sworn affidavit that I am indeed still alive. I even took my mother and father with to declare that I am their legitimate child." Financial nightmare After waiting for months without any feedback, she inquired about the progress of her application, only to be told that there was no record of it. "Now I am forced to again apply. I'm currently financially in a very bad position and can't pay my debtors. And I'm still dead," an emotional Van Rensburg said. David Hlabane, DHA spokesperson, confirmed that Van Rensburg was declared dead in 2017. "She did apply to have her death status revoked but her application is still in process." He could not say how long the process would take. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Roaring trade for some small businesses amidst load shedding gloom Last Sunday Eskom implemented load shedding for the first time since December 2019. While this has resulted in major inconvenience and loss of income for ordinary South Africans and most businesses, some are seeing a sharp increase in trade as a dire WATCH: Bushiri 'a true man of god' - supporters Hundreds of devoted supporters of embattled self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri gathered outside court again on Wednesday to show their support. Watch. WATCH: Hundreds of Bushiri supporters picket outside court Hundreds of supporters of self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri gathered outside the Commercial Crimes Court in Pretoria on Monday morning. 

Bushiri and his wife appeared briefly after being arrested on Friday for fraud and money laundering. Mabona praat ná onderwyser se hofverskyning Steve Mabona, woordvoerder van die Gautengse onderwysdepartement, Vrydagoggend ná die hofverskyning van 'n onderwyser van die Valhalla Primary School in Centurion. Linda Mti op borgtog. Brig. Hangwani Mulaudzi, Valke-woordvoerder, buite die handelshof in Pretoria nadat Linda Mti, voormalige kommissaris van die departement van korrektiewe dienste, op borgtog vrygelaat is. Mti is gearresteer in verband met 'n ondersoek na Bosasa. Linda Mti op borgtog. Brig. Hangwani Mulaudzi, Valke-woordvoerder, buite die handelshof in Pretoria nadat Linda Mti, voormalige kommissaris van die departement van korrektiewe dienste, op borgtog vrygelaat is. Mti is gearresteer in verband met 'n ondersoek na Bosasa. KYK: Bosasa-beskuldigdes in hof Vyf werknemers van Bosasa het Woensdag op aanklagte van onder meer korrupsie, geldwassery en bedrog in die handelshof in Pretoria verskyn. Hulle is Angelo Agrizzi, Andries van Tonder, Patrick Gillingham, Frans Vorster en Carlos Bonifacio. Bolhuis spog met sy sarsie flaminkkuikens Dit gaan goed met die sarsie flaminkkuikens wat op die privaat ondersoeker, Mike Bolhuis se kleinhoewe in Pretoria aangekom het van die Kamfersdam gebied buite Kimberley. S.Africa's EFF party supporters arrive ahead of Manifesto launch Supporters of South Africa's far-left Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) arrive at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve, Pretoria, ahead of the party's manifesto launch. WATCH: 'EFF is the only alternative' - supporter at manifesto launch Hundreds have filled Giant Stadium in Shoshanguve, north of Pretoria ahead of the Economic Freedom Fighters manifesto launch. WATCH: Thieves steal Diesel watches from Pretoria shop A Pretoria business has appealed to twitter following the brazen theft of four Diesel watches worth R 4000 each out of a locked display. R75 000 weg in 'n oogwink Voor Niel van der Post (81) van Pretoria sy oë kon uitvee het 'n skurk, wat hom as 'n weldoener voorgedoen het, sy kredietkaart in die hande gekry en sowat R75 000 spandeer op drank en allerhande luukshede. Video: Deaan Vivier 'Demokrasie is krities vir Zim' sê Mmusi Mmusi Maimane, DA-leier het Donderdag 'n brief aan die Zimbabwiese ambassadein Pretoria oorhandig. Dit handel oor 'n besoek aan dié land om met die presidensie te ontmoet oor die krisis wat tans daar plaasvind. 1 in arres oor geweld Een persoon is in die dienstebetogings in Pretoria-Wes op 'n klag van openbare geweld in hegtenis geneem. Video: Deaan Vivier en Verskaf WATCH: Pretoria West streets gridlocked as residents burn tyres and block roads Motorists and commuters have been warned to avoid several parts of Pretoria West on Thursday owing to protest action that started in the early hours of the morning. Betogers brand bande in Jakarandastad Betogers het Donderdagoggend chaos in Pretoria veroorsaak deur paaie met brandende bande te versper. Rookwolke het oor die hoofstad gehang. 'Our rail system has gone to the dogs' - DA protests at Prasa offices The Democratic Alliance held a picket outside the offices of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA) in Hatfield, Pretoria on Wednesday. Flaminkkuikens landwyd versorg Die flaminkkuikens van Kamfersdam buite Kimberley kry landwye ondersteuning. Die kuikens wat nog nie 'n nes geskrop het by die speurder, Mike Bolhuis in Pretoria nie, word versorg en onder meer na die Wes-Kaap gestuur. WATCH: Prophet Bushiri takes responsibility for deadly church stampede Prophet Shepherd Bushiri on Monday appeared at the CRL Rights Commission hearing looking into the stampede that claimed three lives at the Enlightened Christian Gathering Church (ECG) in Pretoria. Bolhuis red baba flaminke Sowat 870 kleinflaminkkuikens (Phoenicoparrus minor) wat Donderdagmiddag en Vrydagoggend uit die Kamfersdam buite Kimberley van 'n gewisse dood gered is, is Vrydagmiddag reeds op Mike Bolhuis se kleinhoewe. Flaminkkuikens op pad na Pretoria Vrywilligers kon daarin slaag om bykans 'n 1 000 flaminkkuikens wat deur broeipare in die Kamfersdam buite Kimberley agtergelaat is van 'n gewisse dood te red. Hulle word eerdaags na die speurder, Mike Bolhuis se plot in Pretoria vervoer. Bolhuis bied herberg vir flaminke Mike Bolhuis, die private ondersoeker van Pretoria, sê hy sal herberg bied vir die flaminke van Kimberley se Kamfersdam waar hulle uitwissing in die gesig staar weens droogtetoestande en 'n gebrek aan watertoevoer tot die dam. WATCH: Tshwane mayor visits Pretoria train crash victims' families Tshwane Metro Mayor, Solly Msimanga, visited two families of the deceased from last week's Mountain View train accident.
Msimanga expressed his condolences and offered support with the funeral arrangements. WATCH: Mnangagwa and and his gangster must leave Zimbabwe alone - Zimbabweans Protesters marched to the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria on Wednesday in solidarity with their families who've been affected by the total shutdown in Zimbabwe Walus bly agter tralies Michael Masutha, minister van justisie, het Woensdag in Pretoria aangekondig dat daar geen parool vir Janusz Walus, moordenaar van Chris Hani, is nie. Video: Isabel Venter 'Ons is reg om na Zim te marsjeer' Betogers maak stem dik buite Zimbabwe se ambassade in Pretoria in solidariteit met Zimbabwiese burgers wat onder weermag- en polisiegeweld gebuk gaan en omdat die regering die sosiale media in die land afgesny het. Video: Deaan Vivier WATCH: Mnangagwa and and his gangster must leave Zimbabwe alone - Zimbabweans A number of protesters marched to the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria on Wednesday in solidarity with their families who've been affected by the total shutdown in Zimbabwe. Minister besoek familie van treinongelukslagoffers Blade Nzimande, minister van vervoer, en ander amptenare het Woensdag een van die families in Soshanguve, noord van Pretoria, besoek wat 'n ma en pa in verlede week se treinongeluk aan die dood afgestaan het. Video: Christiaan du Plessis WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. SA train collision leaves 600 injured A train collision in South Africa's capital Pretoria kills at least three and injures more than 600. Three killed as trains collide in South Africa Authorities in South Africa say a train collision in Pretoria has killed three people and injured more than 200. The cause of the crash is under investigation. Metrorail het besluit om die spoorlyn tussen Mabopane en Pretoria tot verdere kennisgewing te sluit. Metrorail het besluit om die spoorlyn tussen Mabopane en Pretoria tot verdere kennisgewing te sluit. WATCH: Emergency personnel working to free people trapped under collided trains At least three people have been confirmed dead, while scores of others have been left injured following a train collision at Mountain View station, Pretoria on
Tuesday morning. WATCH: Trains collide at Mountain View station in Pretoria One person has been confirmed dead, while scores of others have been left injured following a train collision at Mountain View station, Pretoria on Tuesday morning. Vuiste vlieg buite kroeg Polisie in Pretoria-Noord ondersoek 'n saak van aanranding nadat 'n man, vermoedelik die eienaar van die Watergat-kroeg, na bewering een van sy werknemers voor die kroeg aangerand het. WATCH: Police investigate assault at Pretoria pub after owner and employee exchange blows Police are investigating a case of common assault after a man, believed to be an employee of Die Watergat Pub in Pretoria North, was assaulted outside the establishment, presumably by his boss. Ameen Bada en Nabeelah Ismail, twee topleerlinge van die Crawford College in Pretoria Ameen Bada en Nabeelah Ismail , twee topleerlinge van die Crawford College in Pretoria, het saam 15 onderskeidings in die Onafhanklike Eksamenraad se matriekeksamen behaal. Albei gaan vanjaar medies aan die Universiteit van die Witwatersrand studeer. Apiesrivier vloei sterk na nuwejaarsdagreën Die Apiesrivier vloei sterk onder die laagwater bruggie in Capital Park in Pretoria gedurende die sagte reën wat val op nuwejaarsdag. Video: Deaan Vivier Chief Khoisan wag vir 'n antwoord van president Ramaphosa Chief Khoisan SA in sy tent waar hy by die Uniegebou in Pretoria wag vir 'n antwoord van President Ramaphosa. Hy kampeer al sedert einde November in die tuine by die Uniegebou. Agter sit Milano Gordon. Video: Sarel van der Walt | Foto's: Deaan Vivier Brandweer red reptiel uit boom 'n Wyfie-iguana het Saterdag uit haar hok in Villieria, Pretoria, ontsnap. Sy het byna 20 m in 'n boom opgeklouter en al genade was om die brandweer te ontbied om met die reddingspoging te help. Na 'n goeie uur se gespook, waarin die eienaar van die Matrieks: Skool was soos familie vir hoofseun Elke onderwyser in die Hoërskool F.H. Odendaal in Pretoria was vir Caleb Nyathi (18) soos 'n ouer, sê dié skool se 2018-hoofseun. Caleb het albei sy ouers verloor toe hy nog maar 'n jong seuntjie was, maar danksy die ondersteuning van onderwysers was Matrieks: Alles ingesit om met diere te kan werk Saroné Pretorius (18) van die Hoërskool Zwartkop in Centurion studeer vanjaar veeartsenykunde aan die Universiteit van Pretoria (UP). Sy wil graag eendag met wild en plaasdiere werk. Matrieks: Rugby sorg vir sy toekoms Rugby het verseker dat hy 'n beter toekoms het as wat hy 'n paar jaar gelede sou gehad het. Boipelo Kgatlhanye (18) van die Hoërskool Waterkloof in Pretoria sê sy rugbyloopbaan het begin toe hy 11 jaar oud was en v San moeg vir leë beloftes Chief Khoi-San en van sy volgelinge het die jaar weer, soos verlede jaar, vanaf Port Elizabeth na die Uniegebou in Pretoria gestap vir dieselfde eise. Pres. Cyril Ramaphosa het op 24 Desember 2017, nadat hulle vir weke by die Uniegebou uitgekamp het. EFF nader hof oor wet Die EFF het vandag die hooggeregshof in Pretoria gevra om dele van die Wet op Oproerige Vergaderings ongrondwetlik te verklaar. Floyd Shivambu, die EFF se adjunkpresident en parlementslid, het die media ná die hofaansoek toegespreek. WATCH: Huge cobra on the loose in Pretoria apartment block's drainage system Residents of a block of flats in Pretoria East are in for a slithery night as a venomous snouted cobra has taken refuge in the drainage system. Matrieks: Voëlboer tem 10 onderskeidings 'n Voëlboer kan nooit genoeg hokke hê nie, is Dricus Oerlemans (18) se leuse. Dié jong man van die Hoërskool Menlopark in Pretoria, bedryf 'n voëlboerdery vanaf die kleinhoewe waar hy in Roodeplaat woon. VIDEO: Activists march 80kms from Marikana to Union Buildings demanding compensation for widows Two groups marched to the Union Buildings in Pretoria on Wednesday. The groups requested President Cyril Ramaphosa receive their memoranda who failed to appear. WATCH.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.