Canny Maphanga PHOTO: Getty Images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Two suspects aged 24 and 26 will be appearing in the Mayflower Periodical Court on Wednesday on charges of murder and business robbery. "Three suspects on March 6, 2019, had gone to a shop, wherein they robbed the 42-year old owner of an undisclosed amount of cash before firing shots at the man and fleeing the scene, leaving him lying in a pool of blood," Mpumalanga police spokesperson Colonel Mtsholi Bhembe said in a statement on Tuesday. An investigation followed after the incident, which led the police to their first arrest. Further information led investigators to the remaining two arrests. Read: Three killed in Johannesburg business robbery "When police arrived, the suspects began running and firing shots at the police which resulted in one of the members being grazed by a bullet. "Police retaliated by firing back and one of the suspects was hit and later certified dead at the scene," Bhembe explained. Mpumalanga police commissioner Lieutenant General Mondli Zuma condemned attacks on the police by criminals. "He also urged members (of the police service) to be alert at all times as well as always expect the worst while attending to complaints," Bhembe concluded. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Robbers make off with woman's phone, bag as she walks in Muizenberg SAPS confirmed that a case of robbery was reported at Muizenberg police station on Tuesday 19 February 2019. The incident allegedly occurred on 9 February at approximately 07:40. WATCH: Brazen robbery in Hillbrow leaves two security officers dead Two security officers were shot and killed during a robbery in Hillbrow on Monday night. WATCH: Armed thieves attack cash-in-transit guards in Krugersdorp A money truck was attacked by armed thieves after guards were collecting money from a filling station in Kagiso on Monday. WATCH: Woman robbed at gunpoint outside Midrand shopping centre Police are investigating a case of armed robbery after a woman was robbed at gunpoint in the parking lot of the Crowthorne shopping centre last week Wednesday. WATCH: Thieves ambush and rob sleeping truck driver A video of a truck driver valiantly fighting off a suspected robber who broke into his truck while he was sleeping inside has surfaced on social media. WATCH: Joburg security guard wounded in shootout with armed robbery suspects A security guard was shot and wounded as he investigated a suspected business robbery on the corner of Prichard and Mooi Streets in Johannesburg last Saturday afternoon. WATCH: Suspects run for cover after heavy fire from security officers disrupts armed robbery Two Chinese nationals and their driver were robbed of R23 000 along the M2 near the Main Reef Road exit in Johannesburg on Tuesday. WATCH: CCTV footage of brazen robbery at Durban curry restaurant The Copper Chimney at the Chatsworth Centre, near Durban, was stormed and robbed by four men as the restaurant was closing up on Sunday night, East Coast Radio (ECR) reported. WATCH: Motorist escapes hijacking, reverses into assailants' car Police are on the hunt for four men who were involved in a botched hijacking in the north of Johannesburg, last week. WATCH: Would-be robber shot dead outside Limpopo mall A would-be bag thief was shot and killed in the parking lot of a Polokwane mall; this after the owner of the bag gave chase, pointed a firearm at the assailant and pulled the trigger. WATCH: Bogus police rob Nelspruit jewellery store Police are searching for a group of men who robbed a jewellery store at I'langa Mall in Nelspruit on Monday. WATCH: Criminal snatches phone out of man's shirt pocket at restaurant A couple enjoying late afternoon lattes were left phone-less at the hands of a brash thief on Wednesday. 

Outdoor sections of restaurants have become hotspots for criminals to snag people's possessions. WATCH: Heavily armed gang steals R170 000 from supermarket A Pick n Pay supermarket in Sebokeng was robbed of an estimated R170 000 last Saturday. This after several armed men demanded keys to the safe from the manager of the outlet. WATCH: Police chopper corners home robber on N1 Motorists on the N1 south in Johannesburg, South Africa had their commute interrupted on Thursday as police flooded the motorway, to arrest a fleeing house robber. WATCH: Slick trio robs Johannesburg pizza shop in just over a minute 3 men robbed a Debonairs pizza shop in Kensington, Johannesburg on Sunday. WATCH: Flash robbery at Krugersdorp, South Africa, supermarket A Krugersdorp supermarket was robbed of an undisclosed amount of money over the weekend. WATCH: Security guard shot dead trying to help a man being robbed in Rosebank A security guard was shot dead in Rosebank on Friday afternoon. 

This is after he saw four suspects attempting to rob a man who was walking on the side of the road, police spokesperson Lungelo Dlamini told News24.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.