Family of a Woodlands woman is desperate for justice after her murder has gone unsolved. Anthea Julius was badly beaten near her home in August last year and to this point, no one has come forward with information. In a plea to have someone come forward and help solve the case, a cash reward of R10 000 has been offered to anyone who assists the police in the arrest and conviction of the person or persons responsible for her death. “On Friday 31 August, Julius, a former EMS paramedic was assaulted in our area. She got beaten and hit over the head and passed away 10 days later. There are no witnesses and the case remains unsolved,” says a relative, who asked not to be named. The incident happened in Artemis Road, close to where the family lives. She was walking to a shop when the incident took place. “She was badly beaten and came home. She went to the day hospital and she told us that they had done tests and scans and found nothing. She went to the hospital a few more times. On Thursday 6 September, her face swelled up and we took her to hospital again,” says the relative. Doctors drained fluid from her brain but as her organs began to fail, there was nothing more doctors could do for Julius. She died on Monday 10 September. The initial case was registered as an inquest, however, when she died from her injuries, the case was changed to murder. The cause of death was confirmed by the pathology lab. Julius was punched in the face and hit over the head with an object. At the time of the incident, no witnesses had come forward. The relative says they have heard many people talking about the incident and believes there are people who know or had seen what happened but are too afraid to come forward. “People in the community who know or had seen what happened speak [about it] among themselves but are too afraid to give statements to the police,” says the relative. “Anthea helped so many people. She went out of her way for other people. We need to know what happened to her. We need to know who attacked her. We need closure,” says the relative. V 
  If you have any information on the incident, call the investigating officer on 082 411 2382 or 082 778 6632.