Sesona Ngqakamba SA police. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Two people have been arrested in connection with a cash-in-transit robbery in Libode, Mthatha in the Eastern Cape on Friday. The arrests come after five gunmen entered a supermarket at a local shopping mall, held a security guard up and robbed a money box which a G4S team was collecting from the store. "The robbers then continued to the cash office and held a security officer and store manager at gunpoint and robbed them of the money box that was being collected, [and] fled the scene," police spokesperson Colonel Brenda Muridili said. Muridili added that a sixth person had been waiting outside in a black sedan which had no registration number. A four-man SBV ATM team came to the rescue. The team had just completed an ATM service when the incident took place. As they were about to leave, they saw the robbers carrying the boxes and fleeing the scene. The team called for assistance and responded to a call for assistance from the G4S team. Read: Two suspected criminals killed in shootout with police According to Mark Barrett, Group CEO of SBV services, the team had just completed an ATM service and were in their vehicle ready to leave the centre. Muridili said a shootout ensued between the SBV team, police and the gunmen and a stray bullet hit one man. Barrett applauded the team for their bravery. "We have once again demonstrated that all industry roleplayers are willing and able to assist one another in the fight against CIT (cash-in-transit) crime," he said. Barrett added that he was pleased that no one had been injured. "We will continue to deploy all our resources to ensure that we win this battle against the lawlessness impacting our industry," said Barrett. Two pistols were recovered as well as an undisclosed amount of money which they made off with. Muridili said the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation would investigate. WATCH: Chinese national shot and wounded, cash stolen in Johannesburg A Chinese national was shot and wounded and cash stolen out of his vehicle when several armed robbers pounced on his car south of Johannesburg yesterday. WATCH: Armed thieves attack cash-in-transit guards in Krugersdorp A money truck was attacked by armed thieves after guards were collecting money from a filling station in Kagiso on Monday. WATCH: New footage shows armed men fleeing after Joburg M1 shootout New footage has emerged giving further insight into the shooting on Johannesburg's M1 on Monday. WATCH: Security guard shot dead trying to help a man being robbed in Rosebank A security guard was shot dead in Rosebank on Friday afternoon. 

This is after he saw four suspects attempting to rob a man who was walking on the side of the road, police spokesperson Lungelo Dlamini told News24. WATCH: Woman robbed at gunpoint outside Midrand shopping centre Police are investigating a case of armed robbery after a woman was robbed at gunpoint in the parking lot of the Crowthorne shopping centre last week Wednesday. WATCH: Police arrest KZN man who threatened to blow up office workers Police have arrested a KwaZulu-Natal man who threatened to blow up office workers with a bomb. WATCH: Looters descend on cash-in-transit vehicle after Mpumalanga heist Another day and another cash-in-transit heist. This time, the suspects were filmed while in the act in Mpumalanga.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.