Canny Maphanga Police car. (Photo: Getty/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The South African Police Service (SAPS) in Mpumalanga is looking for suspects who burned down a school at Uthingo Park, Witbank on Tuesday. "It is alleged that around 03:30… some community members from the area saw the school on fire and alerted the fire department, who responded and managed to extinguish the fire. "However, the administration block, including the principal's office was severely burnt. It is suspected that the suspect(s) may have used an inflammable substance, as an empty container was found on the scene," SAPS spokesperson Colonel Mtsholi Bhembe said in a statement. Also read: Cape Town locals save girls trapped in school residence fire A case of arson has been opened and no arrests have been made since the incident. Mpumalanga police commissioner Lieutenant General Mondli Zuma has condemned the burning of schools in the province. "He voiced his concerns about the future of learners as this kind of conduct has a very negative impact on their future," Bhembe explained. Police are appealing for anyone with information to come forward. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Brick slinging man attacks cops An Mpumalanga man is under police guard in hospital after being shot and injured by police at a school. WATCH: More than 170 left homeless after fire rages through Alexandra Over 100 shacks were destroyed by a fire in Alexandra north of Johannesburg on Tuesday afternoon. WATCH: Grief, anger as Durban community mourns teenagers killed by taxi Grief-stricken Newlands East residents became enraged on Wednesday after a minibus taxi ran into four secondary school pupils in Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, killing three. WATCH: Firefighters battle blaze in Franschhoek mountains Firefigthers have been battling a large blaze in the Franschhoek mountains since Monday, when it broke out in the Mooiwater area. WATCH | Oasis in Ashes: The day a fire swallowed a town On 30 December 2018 a devastating fire gutted the historical mission station of Wupperthal, destroying scores of properties and robbing the residents of their homes, livelihoods and heritage. WATCH: Holy Cross primary in Cape Town on fire Firefighters were called out to Holy Cross RC Primary School in the Cape Town CBD after plumes of smoke were seen emanating from the premises. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. WATCH: Hundreds gather for emotional night vigil at Hoërskool Driehoek Hundreds of people gathered at Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark for an emotional night vigil, after a concrete slab collapsed at the school, killing three children and seriously injuring 25 others. WATCH- Aerial footage shows Lion's Head fire aftermath Aerial footage shows Lion's Head fire aftermath taken from one of the Working on fire Helicopters WATCH: Video shows razed homes after fire sweeps through Hartenbos, Mossel Bay Two houses have been destroyed in a blaze in Mossel Bay's Hartenbos Heuwels. WATCH: Firefighters leave Overstrand with song and dance The firefighters who tirelessly battled to bring a raging fire in the Overstrand area under control have held a parade to thank the community for their support. WATCH: Khayelitsha school bids to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place Chairperson of Enkanini Primary's School Governing Body Andile Lili shows what the school is doing in a bid to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place at the school in Khayelitsha 'The fire was higher than the roof here'- Hermanus farmer "Camphill, you've got 30 minutes until that fire is on you." These were the chilling words that came through as a Hermanus farm community, housing 54 intellectually disabled patients, was forced to evacuate. WATCH: Betty's Bay fire victim shares heartbreaking experience of the blaze A Betty's Bay resident has spoken out about the trauma of losing her home in a fire that raged through the town at the weekend. WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.