Riaan Grobler Shark. Photo. (Getty images/Gallo images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A fisherman from Cape Town received a nasty reward for his efforts of trying to save a shark caught in fishing nets on Tuesday. According to the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) in Port Elizabeth, at around 16:00 on Tuesday, a duty crew was placed on alert following calls for assistance from a fishing trawler around 30 nautical miles off-shore of Port Elizabeth. It was reported that a 46-year-old Cape Town fisherman onboard had sustained shark bites to his left forearm and left upper arm while trying to release 2.5m shark that had been caught in the crew's fishing nets and had been hauled aboard the fishing trawler. "The shark was successfully released and the alarm was raised and the trawler began heading toward Port Elizabeth," said Justin Erasmus, NSRI Port Elizabeth deputy station commander. "In rough sea conditions, once closer to the Port of Port Elizabeth, we launched our sea rescue craft Spirit of Toft, accompanied by an Eastern Cape government health EMS rescue paramedic, and rendezvoused with the trawler 4 nautical miles south of our sea rescue station." An NSRI rescue swimmer was then transferred on to the trawler and the fisherman - in a stable condition, walking wounded, and bandaged by his crew - was transferred on to a sea-rescue craft and medical treatment by the EMS rescue paramedic was initiated. "He was brought to shore and he has been transported to hospital by EMS ambulance in a stable condition for further treatment," said Erasmus. Our Port Elizabeth crew were called out to assist a 46 year old Cape Town fisherman onboard trawler with shark bite lacerations to his Left forearm and Left upper arm.Durban crew assisted a local yacht with 2 local men on board..https://t.co/6pDl5NySI7  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter The 'strawklers' scouring Australian waters for plastic Operation Straw was founded by Sydney resident Harriet Spark at the end of 2017, with the aim of lessening the amount of plastic in the world's oceans. Stories from Gaza: The Fishermen This is the first episode in our documentary mini-series "Stories from Gaza". TRT World's Achment Gonim takes a journey on a fishing boat alongside seven fishermen. We see the effects of the 12-year long Gaza water blockade while capturing the mes... Stories from Gaza: The Fishermen This is the first episode in our documentary mini-series "Stories from Gaza". TRT World's Achment Gonim takes a journey on a fishing boat alongside seven fishermen. We see the effects of the 12-year long Gaza water blockade while capturing the mes... Dutch fishers fear stormy seas ahead after Brexit The prospect of losing British fishing rights after Brexit has thrown a dark cloud over the future of Dutch trawler captains such as Cor Vonk and his family, as he sails into uncertain waters between the port of Den Helder and the Dutch North Sea ... South African chef reaches gastronomic heaven as tables turn A restaurant in a tiny fishing village in South Africa has put its stamp on the international gastronomy circuit after winning the acclaimed title of 'restaurant of the year'. Brexit uncertainty hits UK fishing industry British fishing industry has by in large supported Brexit, but they are now raising concerns about the future. Tiny S. Africa beach restaurant crowned best in world When it comes to fine dining, the isolated South African fishing village of Paternoster probably wouldn't be the first place you'd think of. And yet, a tiny beach restaurant in this town in South Africa's Western Cape has been crowned the world's ... How to Survive a Shipwreck It's a nightmare scenario for anybody. You're on a holiday cruise, you're out fishing, or you're aboard a cargo ship - and disaster strikes. What do you do if you are on a sinking ship? How do you best ensure you can survive? And what should you be prepared for? Tourists cash in for a Newfoundland welcome Brian Day regularly performs a “screech-in” ceremony at Christian's Bar in St. John’s, N.L. The welcoming ceremony developed from old initiation rituals on fishing and sealing vessels and has become a sought-after tourist attraction. Guests from a... New York restaurant lets diners fish for their own supper Catch what you can: New York branch of Japanese restaurant Zuao lets customers fish for their own supper Diners fish for their supper at Zauo Diners fish for their own supper at Zauo restaurant. Customers then choose how they want their fish prepared at this new New York outpost of a Japanese chain. Sweden, UK, Ireland top Northeast Atlantic overfishing 'shame' list Sweden, UK, and Ireland are the worst at following recommendations for sustainable fishing quotas, leaving the EU lagging behind on 2020 goals. finds British think-tank report. No hooks or lines: Cambodians go traditional in fishing ceremony Wielding handmade bamboo baskets and nylon nets, hundreds of people waded thigh-deep into a muddy lake in eastern Cambodia on Sunday for an annual fish-catching ceremony where only traditional tools are used. Ice fishing pros compete in Bulgaria competition The world's ice angling pros converge this weekend on the Shiroka Polyana lake, 1,500 metres above sea level, to face off at the 16th Ice Fishing World Championship. Urbanisation pushes Lagos fishing community into extreme poverty Waterfront fishing communities in Lagos, the economic capital of Nigeria, no longer have access to the lagoon to catch fish to feed themselves and earn some money. In just a few years, this fishing community has moved from poverty to extreme poverty. Iranians risk rough seas to seek life in UK Hundreds of Iranians have risked their lives to cross the world's busiest shipping lane from France to England in search of a better life. British media say it's down to Brexit, but the migrants blame U.S. sanctions and Iran's mix of religion and pol EU readies support for fishermen in case of no-deal Brexit The EU’s executive proposed contingency plans on Wednesday for fishing in the event of a no-deal Brexit, suggesting EU fishermen could be compensated if barred from Britain, and British boats could fish in EU waters for the rest of this year. Lebanon's winter storm floods Beirut houses Several houses in the southern suburbs of Beirut have been ravaged by a winter storm battering Lebanon in recent days, washing away dozens of fishing boats. Hundreds fish in Indian lake to celebrate harvest Hundreds of villagers take part in a community fishing event in India's northeastern Assam state to celebrate a traditional harvest festival. AP Top Stories January 10 Here's the latest for Thursday January 10: Trump to visit US-Mexico border; Shutdown talks remain deadlocked; Secretary of State Pompeo visits Egypt; 3 Crabbers die after commercial fishing boat capsizes. My First Award: Michelle Yeoh Fishing for compliments? Michelle Yeoh’s first award was for being a water baby. The Wild Beauty of Spain's Galicia Galicia in northwestern Spain combines breathtaking countryside, rugged coastlines and picturesque fishing villages. In the many bays along the Atlantic coastline, mussels are still cultivated by traditional methods. Meet a local: Kerry, Ireland Irishwoman Mairin Ahern takes us around her home region, a county shaped by the torn Atlantic coast, steep cliffs and tiny fishing villages. Fishtripr online marketplace for sport fishers Fishtripr is building an online market connecting fans of the outdoors with sport fishing sites. Chinese fishing deal makes waves for Madagascar's fishermen In Anakao, a traditional fishing community in southwest Madagascar, the community known as Vezo -- meaning -- "rowing strength" -- have fished for generations. But the arrival last year of six fishing trawlers off the coast has complicated their l... Scottish fishermen sceptical about Brexit promises During the 2016 Brexit referendum there was much debate about the EU's effect on the British fishing industry. As the process reaches a crucial stage, fishermen in Scotland are sceptical that promises made by Brexit supporters will be fulfilled. Japanese chefs grapple with hybrid pufferfish Japanese scientists are worried about Fugu, the Japanese pufferfish that's famous as a delicacy but also infamous for carrying a highly toxic poison. Experts in Japan say that climate change is sowing confusion in the fishing industry with the arriva Fishing for value on volatile times Jyotivardhan Jaipuria, founder and MD of Velantis Advisors talks to you about the market conditions. How This Sleepy Fishing Town Became a Surfer's Paradise The residents of Nazare, Portugal lived comfortably in their sleepy villages, but they all had one common fear: The sea's gigantic waves. Yemen fishermen face starvation at home or death at sea Fishermen at a harbour in the battle-scarred Red Sea city of Hodeida struggle to survive as they are forced to fish close to the shore due to the danger of being shot or intercepted at sea, thus limiting their daily catch. Hodeida, home to Yemen's... Japan's 'ama' grannies cling to freediving fishing tradition A group of Japanese grannies aged 60 to 80 glide through the water, sometimes holding their breath for over a minute to collect shellfish. They are part of a community in Japan of "ama" -- freediving fisherwomen -- which has seen its numbers dwind... Russian fisherman shares pics of nightmare creatures from the depths A Russian fisherman has found Internet fame by posting photos of all the weird and horrifying creatures he finds on his travels near the Arctic.

Roman Fedortsov, a 40-year-old engineer and technologist on fishing trawlers in the Barents Sea, post... Hunting for lost treasure in Italy Fishermen in Naples are struggling to earn a living from fishing. But they are hoping their planned tours of archeological treasure on the seabed will attract enough tourists for them to secure their financial futures. Israel reduces fishing zone for Palestinians Fishermen in the Gaza say the new Israeli restriction on the fishing zone off the Palestinian enclave is financially crippling and unbearable. 
#Palestine #Gaza #Israel Gaza fishermen struggle as Israel reduces fishing zone Fishermen in the Gaza region say the new Israeli restriction on the fishing zone off the Palestinian enclave is financially crippling - and unbearable. Saskia O'Donoghue reports Gaza's fishermen struggle as Israel tightens restricted fishing zone Israel tightened the restricted fishing zone off the Palestinian enclave from 9 to 6 nautical miles, deepening the economic crisis in the enclave dominated by the Hamas Islamist militant group. British and French boats clash in 'scallop war' French and British fishing boats clashed in the English Channel, pelting stones and ramming each other's boats in the latest "scallop war" skirmish. Fishing for Cod Go on a rare cod fishing adventure to Gros Morne National Park in Newfoundland, Canada with World Nomads’ Will McCloy. Allowed for just 20 days a year, can Will land a great catch? Snowmobiling Join World Nomads’ Colleen Hagerty as she speeds across Norway’s stunning countryside on a snowmobile, coming across a few surprises along the way, plus ice fishing to catch dinner. Catch of the Day Join World Nomads’ Suresh Doss as he travels to Sri Lanka and discovers that the locals love their seafood, especially in the south where there are plenty of busy fish markets along the coast. Fishermen clash in a battle for scallops Forty French fishing boats took part in a sea battle against their British counterparts in the English Channel with vessels ramming into each other and insults exchanged in a scrap over precious scallop stocks. Boats collide over scallop fishing French and British fishing fleets have come to blows over when they can catch scallops. Whale rescued from fishing net in Chile The mammal was freed in an operation led by the Chilean Navy. Mysterious Bubbling Turns Out To Be Whales Fishing A strange ring appears in a lake folowed by bubbles. A hot new trend: Street Fishing More and more young European city dwellers are taking up angling as their new pastime. Street fishing is a new trend that doesn't require a lot of gear or preparation. Mumbai slum gets colourful makeover More than 50 artists came together to paint 400 houses in the tiny fishing village of Khar Danda. Fishing boats take to water for Nova Scotia pulp mill protest Dozens of fishing boats joined a protest on Friday over a Nova Scotia pulp mill's plan to pump wastewater into the Northumberland Strait. A local First Nations chief said everyone shares a "duty" to protect the land and the water. Thailand's floating football pitch These Thai kids didn't give up playing football despite living in a floating fishing village. They've built a floating pitch near the island of Koh Panyee, southern Thailand, for their training. Roncesvalles, Bermeo, Guernica, Bilbao Brian crosses the Pyrenees on the Camino de Santiago and passes from France into northern Spain. Hurrying through Navarre and rather regretting a choppy fishing trip, he finally finds refuge in the stunning Guggenheim Museum at Bilbao. People the Size of a Fist - Part 1 Delve into the daily life, traditions and customs of the Baka Pygmies.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.