Duncan Alfreds A strong storm approaches Mozambique. (Windy.com screen grab) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A major cyclone is expected to make landfall in Mozambique on Thursday evening, bringing with it high wind speeds and rain. The storm is expected to deliver a massive punch to the country when it hits, as pre-storm flooding in Mozambique has already killed 66 people. News24 reported that an additional 45 people had died in Malawi as a result of flooding on Wednesday. The cyclone, named Tropical Cyclone Idai, is gathering strength over the Indian Ocean and is predicted to hit the country in the city of Beira in Sofala Province. "It [Idai] is on its way to Beira, it's going to make landfall tonight," South African Weather Service forecaster Jan Vermeulen told News24 on Thursday. READ: Massive tropical storm takes aim at Mozambique "It's an intense tropical cyclone; it will have winds of 105 knots (200km/h) when it makes landfall," said Vermeulen. Flooding South African officials are working with their counterparts in Mozambique through the National Joint Operations Centre to share information on the storm and its likely impact. READ: Floods in SA, Mozambique, Malawi kill 115 so far Widespread flooding is expected. "We are expecting more than 100mm of rain in places; it could even reach 200mm or more in places. The main thing is wind damage and high waves that could go up to 10m," said Vermeulen, adding that storm surges were also a concern. Mozambique cabinet spokesperson Ana Comoana said the "government has decreed a red alert due to the continuing rains and the approach of the tropical cyclone Idai, expected to reach the country between Thursday to Friday", Al Jazeera reported. Cyclones are typical for Mozambique at this time of year, but there are concerns that the weather patterns have been increasing in intensity. According to the Mozambique National Institute for Disaster Management, the National Operational Emergency Centre (CENOE) is prepared for extreme weather events and in 2017, the CENOE demonstrated the use of drones to allow teams to assess the impact and scale of natural disasters. According to the Mozambican Master Plan for Disaster Risk Reduction 2017-2030, the Mozambique National Institute for Disaster Management argues that over the last 20 years, the country has experienced increasing high intensity and frequency of extreme weather events. News24 reported that Tropical Storm Dineo, with winds in excess of 166km/h, hit Mozambique in February. It followed Tropical Storm Desmond, which hit in January. Weather service Windy.com showed that the storm was off the east coast of Mozambique, with winds already in excess of 100km/h.    KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Mozambican refugees prepare to head home after three years Thousands of Mozambican refugees who fled to Malawi in a bid to escape conflict in their homeland head home after an easing of tensions between government and its opposition. Keepie-uppie queen dazzles crowds around Africa Tanzanian ball juggler Hadhara Charles Mjeje has turned into a viral sensation thanks to her impressive football skills. Hadhara, 29, revealed that she started juggling to earn money for her two sons. She has since dazzled crowds in several countr... Cruising from Durban to Pomene - and the craziness in-between Onboard the MSC Musica, taking a trip from port city Durban in South Africa to Mozambique's tropical Pomene can be quite a madhouse holiday. Quick Guide to Mozambique Mozambique, much more than golden and white sandy beaches, prawns and peri-peri chicken, this unique African destination offers travellers a wealth of memorable experiences. (Photos: iStock) Maputo Special Reserve: Where Elephants Learn To Trust Humans Again After years of poaching during the war, the elephants of Maputo Special Reserve in Mozambique are very wary of humans, but hopefully positive interactions with peaceful tourists will change all that. Zimbabwe: Help for Africa's wild dogs Wild dogs are among the most endangered carnivores in Africa, with only several thousand left. The Save Valley Conservancy in southeastern Zimbabwe is one of the last places they can roam freely. Syrah declares commercial production at Balama 14 Jan 2019 - Syrah Resources (ASX:SYR) has declared commercial production at its Balama graphite mine in Mozambique. WATCH: Mozambique spitting cobra keeps Durban neighbourhood on its toes A 1.4 meter Mozambique Spitting Cobra was captured outside a house in Verulam, Durban yesterday. Scientists search for new solutions to combat crop-eating worm Scientists in Britain are hoping to find a sustainable way to stop the march of the voracious fall armyworm caterpillar that has infested Africa. Why are suspected Islamist militants attacking Mozambique? They have carried out attacks in northern Mozambique since October 'Hunt my animals and I'll catch you' Zimbabwe's armed female anti-poaching unit protect one of the biggest elephant populations in Africa. Ghost airport lies empty and unused Nacalas International Airport in Mozambique operates at only 4% of its capacity. Is this Africa's tallest tree? A German scientist says a tree he discovered in Tanzania is Africa's tallest.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.