Pelane Phakgadi (File, Getty/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The body of an unknown male, which was burnt beyond recognition, has been found in a field in Ikamvelihle in the Eastern Cape. The man is suspected to have been killed by an angry mob. Motherwell Cluster Commander, Major General Dawie Rabie, strongly condemned the killing. "The community must refrain from taking the law into their own hands to commit assaults and murders on other persons or suspected criminals," he said. Rabie said the police will not tolerate these murders. "It is unknown how many perpetrators were involved in this murder or what the motive was for the murder. The SAPS are suspecting this murder to be committed as a vigilante attack and killing by an unknown group of the community," said police spokesperson Captain Andre Beetge. "Persons taking part in vigilante killings immediately become killers themselves," he added. Beetge has called on anyone with information to contact the police.  WATCH: Cellphone footage shows violent mob justice on Cape Town promenade On Sunday, the Eden on the bay promenade in Big bay, seemed no different than it usually does on a sunny weekend for the most part of the day. Then the end of the day saw the stretch of grass on the promenade turn into a small war zone. WATCH: Brick slinging man attacks cops An Mpumalanga man is under police guard in hospital after being shot and injured by police at a school. WATCH: More than 170 left homeless after fire rages through Alexandra Over 100 shacks were destroyed by a fire in Alexandra north of Johannesburg on Tuesday afternoon. WATCH: Malema condemns rape threats after EFF posts Karima Brown's number Speaking after his birthday celebrations in Ekhuruleni, EFF leader Julius Malema on Tuesday condemned rape being used as a threat. WATCH: Grief, anger as Durban community mourns teenagers killed by taxi Grief-stricken Newlands East residents became enraged on Wednesday after a minibus taxi ran into four secondary school pupils in Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, killing three. WATCH: Prophet Mboro reiterates that he never went to heaven Self-proclaimed prophet Paseka "Mboro" Motsoeneng has reiterated that  he never went to heaven and snapped selfies with Jesus, instead this story was planted by the PR team of another self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri. WATCH: Man says he was assaulted for 'staring' at perpetrator's wife While waiting for an order at a Benoni pizza outlet, a 28-year-old, Ekurhuleni, man was allegedly beaten up by a group of white men and called a k*** allegedly for staring at one of the men's wife. WATCH: Family 'can't cope' with Sibusiso Khwinana murder The family of murdered Matwetwe lead actor Sibusiso Khwinana said they are saddened by his passing. WATCH: Hijacker shoots man in Welkom driveway An elderly man is recovering in hospital after being shot during a hijacking in Welkom, Free State on Friday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.