Sarah Evans Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Uber faces a class action suit by customers who say they suffered emotional trauma and physical injuries while using its service. Eleven people represented by Ulrich Roux Attorneys will approach the High Court in an effort to pursue a damages claim from the transportation service as a class action. The class action comes on the back of criminal and civil suits involving people who were harmed, allegedly while using Uber. In a criminal case, four men are currently facing trial on a number of charges including rape, attempted rape, kidnapping, robbery with aggravating circumstances and attempted murder. They allegedly attacked five Uber users between July and August 2016. According to the charge sheet, the accused's modus operandi was for one of them to pose as an Uber taxi driver and pretend to be the driver who received the victim's Uber request. But he was not the driver linked to the victim's Uber app. In most of the cases, the other accused would emerge from the boot of the car, through the back seat, and attack the victims, stabbing and raping them in all cases but one, which was an attempted rape. The victims were also robbed of their belongings and made to tell the accused their bank account details. In the civil case, Roux said that eight people had come forward wanting to claim damages from Uber for incidents that took place while they were using the service. Safety 'a top priority' Roux said that the team of lawyers was drafting an application to have the case certified as a class action, which must be approved by the High Court before it can proceed. He said the team believed that Uber had "vicarious liability" in these incidents, as it advertised the service as safe and reliable to use. Uber told News24 on Thursday that it could not comment on a case that has not yet begun, however, its thoughts remain with the riders affected by these incidents, it said. "Our thoughts continue to be with the riders and their families, these incidents are deeply upsetting. "As soon as these incidents were reported we reached out to local authorities and whatever information we could provide was handed over to the police and it was this close collaboration that led to the arrest of the suspect. In cases of this nature we work closely with police to support their investigations," Uber explained in a statement on Thursday. The taxi service also wished to clarify that since these incidents, it had undertaken to improve its verification process and safety features for riders and drivers. "Safety is a top priority for Uber, and has been since our launch in South Africa. We're committed to doing the right thing and take on our part of the responsibility to increase safety. "We constantly invest and innovate to raise the bar on safety," Uber said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: From Soweto to the skies - entrepreneur creates 'air taxi' business The first black-owned air taxi is bringing affordable flights to more 150 airports across the country. What the CEO Thokozani Miya describes as "Uber in the air". Watch. WATCH: Courtney Pieters' killer gets two life sentences for her rape, murder The Western Cape High Court has sentenced Mortimer Saunders to two life sentences for the rape and murder of 3-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH: Life sentences for Hannah Cornelius' murderers The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. WATCH: Grief, anger as Durban community mourns teenagers killed by taxi Grief-stricken Newlands East residents became enraged on Wednesday after a minibus taxi ran into four secondary school pupils in Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, killing three. WATCH: Three Durban schoolchildren die after being hit by a taxi Three schoolchildren have been killed and another is in a serious condition after they were struck by a minibus taxi on Dumisani Makhaye Drive in Durban, KwaZulu-Natal. WATCH: Enterprising Joburgers 'ferry' passengers across flooded road Enterprising Joburgers came to the rescue of stranded pedestrians looking to cross a flooded street near Noord Street taxi rank. WATCH | Wife, colleagues pay tribute to metro cop killed by taxi A Durban metro police officer, who was run over and killed while on duty outside the Galleria Mall in Amanzimtoti, will be laid to rest on Monday morning.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.