Amid the scourge of gender-based violence and senseless killings of women and children around the country, a Kensington man has opened his heart to assist the victims. Kevin Alexander is a community activist and a manager of the Kensington- based Haven Night Shelter. He has more than 20 years experience in the legal fraternity. He is a justice of the peace (judicial) officer in the Magisterial District of Cape Town, a position he has held since 1998. He has also been involved in various community upliftment programmes. Alexander wants to use his knowledge of the judiciary process, the Domestic Act and Sexual Offences Act and being a Justice of the Peace in the magisterial district to help the victims. He says there have been too many incidents of rape and murder across the country. “While social media platforms are flooded with posts and comments of shock and outrage, I decided to start doing something practical in our communities to help protect women,” Alexander says. He says domestic violence occurs daily, but people are still afraid to talk about it because of all the wrong perceptions regarding the topic, in some cases domestic violence is regarded as a family problem and should be treated as a private matter. Alexander says these perceptions apply to all forms of abuse; be it physical violent, sexual abuse, emotional, psychological abuse or economic abuse, and may affect anyone. “It can be quite intimidating and emotionally draining for a victim of abuse to speak out and take the first steps to fight back, such as applying for a protection order. My service is completely free of charge,” says Alexander. He is willing to help anyone affected or in a domestic relationship with the abuser. However, Alexander says for the process to work well, abused women will have to acknowledge that they are in abusive relationships and “that it is not her fault”. He calls on those who are experiencing abuse or know of a victim to speak out. “Talk to family members, friends, community leaders or go to the police. Contact advisory centres or support groups in your area. You can get their details at the police station, day hospital, clinic, library or from your ward councillor,” says Alexander. V 
  For help or more information, contact Kevin Alexander at justice.peace.sa@gmail.com or kevinalex1603@gmail.com, or on WhatsApp on 072 279 3170.