A witness in the Glebelands hostel case on Tuesday implicated a former policeman currently on trial as the gunman who opened fire on him and his friends. The witness is not being named following a ruling by Judge Nkosinathi Chili that the identities of the main state witnesses should not be disclosed, in order to protect them. Standing trial in the KwaZulu-Natal High Court in Pietermaritzburg are former policeman Bhekuwazi Mdweshu, Khayelihle Mbuthuma, Vukani Mcobothi, Eugene Hlophe, Ncomekile Matlale, Mbuyiselwa Mkhize, Mondli Mthethwa and Bongani Mbhele. READ | Glebelands 8 accused plead not guilty The Durban men face nine murder charges and several counts of attempted murder. They do not all face the same attempted murder charges. Mdweshu also faces charges of racketeering and extortion. The crimes allegedly took place between 2014 at 2016 at the hostel in Umlazi. The witness testified on Tuesday in connection with the attempted murders of four people on August 19, 2014. He said that he was with five friends in the vicinity of a garage near R block at Glebelands when several armed men opened fire on them. He said he had run away and ended up behind some garages. READ | Glebelands: Four hostel witnesses in protection "I noticed the person who had been shooting from the garage moved to the back of two garages. Shots were fired in my direction. I decided to roll myself on the ground. I ended up at the edge of the road," he said. Witness names Mdweshu He added that the person firing shots in his direction stopped and changed his focus to another garage. He had caught a good look at this man because the street lights were illuminating the area. It was Mdweshu, the witness said. "He was wearing a Daniel Hector hat that I know he had," added the man. He said that he then saw Mdweshu running away "as if he had been struck". The police officer was carrying a rifle. The state alleges that, during this attack, was injured in crossfire. A swab from a plastic bottle with blood was taken and tested and it matched Mdweshu's DNA. He went to hospital to be treated and said he was shot during an attempted hijacking. However, he gave his employer a different story. The trial continues.