Justice has finally caught up with a rapist who evaded sentencing for more than 14 years. At its sitting in Sasolburg on Friday (06/09), the High Court sentenced Lesia Jacob Mokoena (36) to 60 years’ imprisonment. He is already serving 20 years for another case of rape, committed in 2009. The court found Mokoena guilty on two counts of rape and assault with the intent to cause grievous bodily harm in 2004. The sentence relates to the gang rape of two victims and the attack of the two victims’ male friends. Mokoena was sentenced to three years’ imprisonment for the assault, and 60 years for the two counts of rape. The sentences will be served concurrently. The court classified the assault incidents as grievous bodily harm due to evidence and he got three-years sentence. For the two gang-rape incidents Mokoena receive 60-years imprisonment. Forensic evidence and DNA results linked Mokoena to both rape cases. In the first incident, on 10 April 2004, his victim was 18 years old. The other incident occurred on 24 July of the same year. In both cases, the female victims and their male friends were attacked on their way home from local taverns. According to evidence, Mokoena is linked with the two rape of the two women and assault of their male friends. “In the first incident, the convicted assaulted the male friend, after which he grabbed and dragged the 18-year-old victim by force to a dumping site near the Oranjeville road. He and others took turns raping her,” said Const. Josephine Rani, regional police spokesperson. “In the second incident, the 19-year-old victim was walking with her boyfriend when two unknown males approached them, assaulted him and raped her.” The police struggled to find leads in these cases until Mokoena and his accomplice were arrested in 2009 in connection with another rape of a woman. “Through this case, Mokoena’s DNA positively linked him to the other two rapes committed in 2004,” Rani said. Now another 60 years have been added on to the 20 years Mokoena is already serving for the most recent incident. Mokoena’s accomplice was acquitted because the state failed to positively link him to the cases. The success in solving these cold cases is attributed to work by Sgt Sophie Kgayane of the Zamdela Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit in Sasolburg.