Monday's weather across South Africa will be mostly cloudy and cool, according to the SA Weather Service. News24 reported on Sunday that there was light snowfall in the Eastern Cape and Oudtshoorn. Weather in your region: Gauteng is expected to be partly cloudy and warm, becoming cloudy with isolated showers and thundershowers in the afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index is very high. Mpumalanga will be cloudy in the east with drizzle and fog along the escarpment where it will be cool, otherwise partly cloudy and warm. Limpopo will be cloudy in the east with drizzle and fog along the escarpment where it will be cool, otherwise partly cloudy and warm with isolated afternoon thundershowers in the central and western parts. The North West province is expected to be hot in the north-east, otherwise fine, windy and warm becoming partly cloudy in the afternoon with isolated thunderstorms in the extreme east. The Free State is expected to be cloudy with fog patches over the extreme eastern parts at first, otherwise fine and warm but hot in the north and north-east, becoming partly cloudy to cloudy in the east with isolated showers and thundershowers. It will be fine windy and cool in the Northern Cape, but warm in places along the coastal areas. It will be partly cloudy in the extreme south at first. The wind along the coast will be strong south-easterly. The Western Cape will be cloudy along the south-coast and north-eastern interior in the morning, otherwise fine and cool, but warm in places over the West Coast District interior. The wind along the coast will be light and variable along the south-coast in the morning, otherwise moderate to fresh south-easterly but strong along the west and south-west coast. The expected UVB sunburn index is high. The western half of the Eastern Cape will be partly cloudy and cool to cold with isolated showers east of St. Francis early morning, becoming fine over the interior late morning. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate south-westerly but moderate to fresh east St Francis at first. The eastern half of the province can expect to be partly cloudy to cloudy and cold with isolated showers in the south along the coast spreading to the Wild coast overnight. It will clear in the northern interior in the afternoon. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh south-westerly becoming southerly in the evening. Kwazulu-Natal will experience morning fog over the interior, otherwise cloudy and cool but cold in the west. Morning rain and isolated showers are expected. The wind along the coast will be fresh south-westerly moderating in the afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index is low. Here are the temperatures in your region:                    