Isolated showers and rain are expected along the southern coastline, and the eastern and north-eastern parts of the country on Tuesday. Cool conditions are expected in these areas. Temperatures along the coast will be cool to warm, according to the South African Weather Service. Special weather advisories Strong interior winds of 50 to 60km/h are expected along the coast and adjacent interior of the Namakwa District of the Northern Cape on Wednesday and Thursday morning. The weather in your region Gauteng will be cloudy in the morning, with fog patches on the Highveld. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and cool, with isolated showers and thundershowers. The expected UVB sunburn index is low. It will be cloudy in the morning, with drizzle and fog patches along the escarpment of Mpumalanga. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and cold to cool, with isolated showers and thundershowers. It will be warm in the Lowveld. Limpopo will be cloudy in the east in the morning, with drizzle and fog patches along the escarpment. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and cool to warm, with isolated showers and thundershowers. It will be partly cloudy in the extreme east and north-eastern parts of the North West. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool to warm. The Free State will be cloudy, with fog patches over the extreme eastern parts at first. Otherwise, it will be fine and warm, but partly cloudy and cold to cool in the north and east. It will be fine and warm, but cool over the southern interior of the Northern Cape. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong. It will be cloudy to partly cloudy with light rain along the south coast of the Western Cape. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool to warm. The wind along the coast will be light. The expected UVB sunburn index is high. The Eastern Cape is expected to be partly cloudy and cold, with morning fog patches in the north. Otherwise, it will be cloudy and cool to cold, with isolated showers and rain. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. It will be cloudy and cool, but cold in the south-western parts of KwaZulu-Natal, where isolated showers are expected. Morning fog patches are expected on the escarpment. The wind along the coast will be moderate. The expected UVB sunburn index is low. - Compiled by Naseema Barday Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days