High temperatures are expected across the western parts of the country, with hot conditions along the West Coast on Saturday. Fire danger warnings have been issued for the area. Warnings Extremely high fire conditions are expected over the Namakwa District in the Northern Cape and the central interior of Western Cape, according to the South African Weather Service. Special weather advisories Strong north to north-westerly winds (50-62km/h) are expected over the western parts of the Namakwa District of the Northern Cape, and northern parts of the West Coast of Western Cape on Saturday. Strong north-westerly winds are expected over the Northern and Western Cape interiors on Sunday. Dust and sand storms, due to strong and gusting winds, are possible over the extreme western parts of the Northern Cape on Saturday morning. Extremely hot conditions are expected along the Northern Cape coastal areas, and the northern West Coast of the Western Cape on Saturday. The weather in your region It will be fine and cool in Gauteng. The expected UVB sunburn index is high. Mpumalanga will be cloudy and cool, but cold in places over the Highveld. Morning fog and drizzle is expected along the escarpment. It will be cloudy and cool, with morning drizzle in places over the escarpment of Limpopo. It will become partly cloudy in the west. The North West will be partly cloudy in the east at first. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool to warm. Morning fog patches are expected in the extreme eastern parts of the Eastern Cape. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool, but warm in the west. The Northern Cape will be fine, windy and warm, but hot to very hot in places over the interior. Sand and dust storms are possible along the West Coast and adjacent interior. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong. It will be very hot to extremely hot over the West Coast of the Western Cape. Otherwise, it will be fine and warm to hot. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. The expected UVB sunburn index will be high. The Eastern Cape is expected to be cloudy with fog south of the escarpment. Otherwise, it will be fine and warm, but hot in places. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong. It will be cloudy with morning fog over the interior of KwaZulu-Natal. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and cool, becoming fine from the south in the afternoon. The wind along the coast will be moderate. The expected UVB sunburn index is moderate.  - Compiled by Naseema Barday Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days