The gruesome discovery of a woman’s body in Barcelona, in Gugulethu, has left the community reeling. Her bloodied body was found near Luzuko Primary School on Friday 6 September. The victim allegedly had stab wounds in her upper body and it is believed that the stones found next to her body were used to kill her. The incident comes as the nation is still in mourning following a spate of gender- based violence attacks including the murder of 19-year-old University of Cape Town student Uyinene Mrwetyana. She went missing after visiting the Clareinch post office in Claremont three weeks ago. Her body was found a week later in Khayelitsha. A 42-year-old post office worker led the police to a house where he had allegedly buried the body. Mrwetyana’s was laid to rest in Centane in the Eastern Cape on Saturday 7 September, following her funeral in East London. Barcelona resident Lulekwa Ngxola described the latest incident as shocking, not only to the area but to the people of South Africa at large. She said as women they are living in fear. “Enough is enough. We can’t tolerate to see women dying every day at the hands of men.” She said no woman can kill another woman like this ,” said Ngxola. “There were stones with blood on next to her head. It was clear that the perpetrators were pelting her with them. And it looks like there were stab wounds on her upper body. She was covered with blood,” said Ngxola “The police must ensure that they don’t leave any stone unturned,” she said. It is believed that the deceased was killed somewhere else and dumped in the area, she added. “The fight against gender-based violence has become a serious issue and it needs government intervention. As women our lives are in danger because of heartless men,” said Ngxolo. Founder of Ilitha Labantu, Mandisa Monakali, said as an organisation they are shocked by the incident. She described it as barbaric. “Enough is enough. Justice must prevail. We need perpetrators to be arrested,” said Monakali. She stated that not all men are murderers or rapists. “We also need men to come forward and fight against gender-based violence. They must speak out,” she said adding that their children are also not safe in the community. Ward 39 councillor Bongani Ngcombolo said it is not the first time such an incident happened in his ward. He described his ward as one of the dangerous areas in Gugulethu. “Three months ago a woman was gunned down by her husband in Barcelona. Another incident happened in January this year where we found an unknown body in Europe,” he said. He urged the community members to calm down and let law enforcement do their job. “I’m appealing to anyone who has information with regards to the death of the deceased or where she was coming from. Report it to the police. Taking law into our own hands won’t help,” said Ngcombolo. Gugulethu police station commander Brig Luyanda Damoyi said they found the family of the deceased in Langa. “It is clear that the deceased was killed somewhere else and dumped in Gugulethu. The case is being investigated. No arrest has yet been made,”he said. Damoyi said a case of murder was registered.