A WOMAN from Kranskop, near Greytown, who survived a botched kidnapping said she jumped out a moving taxi to save herself from the men who had allegedly tried to kidnap her in the Msinga area on September 6. Thabisumndeni Mhlongo is recovering at home from facial injuries sustained during her escape. Mhlongo, a consultant for an insurance company, was on her way to work in Stanger when the botched kidnapping incident took place. Mhlongo was at the hiking spot trying to catch a taxi from Msinga to Greytown; and then get another taxi from Greytown to Stanger. While waiting in Msinga, she said she saw a taxi with four occupants in it and asked the driver if he was going to Greytown. “He asked me to jump inside. I felt uncomfortable when I saw that there were only three men inside [but] it never crossed my mind that the three men would abuse me. “The taxi driver drove for a few metres. I saw another person stopping the taxi. It was Pastor Bernard Khoza. He asked the driver if he was going to Greytown but the other men sitting told the driver not to allow Khoza to come in as it would ‘disturb the plan’,” Mhlongo said. “I heard him telling the driver that ‘she is going to be our victim’. “I asked the driver to stop the taxi, and he refused. I asked him again, by this time it became clear to me that they were going to kill me. “I thought I was going to die and never see my family again. “The man sitting next to me grabbed my hand and tried to force me to sit. I fought and pushed him. We wrestled and finally I managed to overpower him. All I wanted was to get out of the moving taxi as soon as possible. I knew I was going to die anyway, so I pushed the door and fell down on the road,” Mhlongo said. When she forced her way out from the moving taxi she fell and her forehead plunged into the tar road. She sustained open wounds on her forehead and facial injuries. Pastor Khoza, was now following the taxi in his car. He saw the incident and intervened. He said after the driver had refused to offer him a lift he became suspicious because he saw a woman [Mhlongo] who had been waiting for taxis at a hiking spot jumping into the same taxi. In his interview with the Greytown Gazette, Khoza said he had decided to leave his car in Msinga as he was going to meet his family members in Greytown who were driving back to Msinga. “After he [taxi driver] refused to pick me up, I became suspicious and followed the taxi. The driver drove for about half a kilometre and then I saw the door of the taxi opening while it was moving. To my surprise I saw something falling out, like luggage, from the taxi. I drove fast and overtook the taxi. “I was shocked when I saw a woman lying on the road, bleeding and asking for help. I stopped my car and jumped out to assist the injured women,” Khoza said. Khoza said he confronted the three men in the taxi and asked them to take the victim to a hospital, oblivious to what had happened. “They refused so I rushed her to a local hospital in Msinga and learnt from her about what had happened. I waited for her until doctors and nurses finished dressing her wounds. I then took her to the Greytown Police station to report the incident,” he said. >>“I thought I was going to die and never see my family again”