UITENHAGE poet, Irene Sout, hopes to make a difference in her crime ridden community with a newly published poetry collection. The poetry book, titled Salty Words, which consists of 30 poems, was published earlier this month. The first-time published poet Sout said the book does not have a specific theme but instead it showcases different events with different emotions. The book, which was published by Matha Publications, in association with White-On Chapooks which is a division of White-On publishing, is available in three different languages, namely Afrikaans, English and Xhosa. “I translated this anthology into three languages for the new generation. It is easier to understand in your own language, but it is also good to learn a new language,” Sout said. The collection of poems, which is expected to be launched on October 30, focuses on some of the issues she has faced while staying in the rural area of Tiryville, in Uitenhage. Sout said her community is plagued with crime, poverty and gangsterism. “I felt weak because there was nothing I could do about the circumstances in my community so I thought I would write and hopefully someone could read it,” she said. One of Sout’s poems, titled Die Dood op jou Rug, is an Afrikaans poem which translates to The Death on Your Back, is a poem about gangsterism and how gangsters need to realise what they are doing to the community. Another one of her poems, titled A New Baby’s Cry takes the reader into the mind of a baby living without a father. “Many children in my community are born without a father which often leads to them becoming gangsters,” she said. Sout, who was always interested in poetry, but only started writing one year ago, said she enjoyed poetry at school but often found it difficult to understand what the poet was thinking. She however tried to make her poems easy to understand for the reader. “I try to make it easy for the reader to understand by bringing emotions into my poems,” she said. Sout, who did not study to become a poet but instead was always noting down her life experiences, said she was not a perfect speaker and felt that people understood her better when she wrote. “I am not able to speak loudly when I am socialising so I prefer to write down my thoughts,” she said Sout has already completed her second and third poetry collections. Her second book, titled Snoekie se Plaas Lewe is a children’s book and her third book, titled Beautifully Broken, speaks about abused women. Both books are still pending release.