Joy and laughter were palpable outside Laerskool Kollegepark in Vanderbijlpark, Gauteng, on Tuesday following the news that kidnapped Grade R pupil Amy-Leigh de Jager was safe in the hands of her parents. A few parents placed pink balloons at the school's entrances in celebration of her return as academic activities returned to normal. "Today is the most joyous day of our lives. This has been a very difficult time. Everybody at school is just so grateful," deputy principal Juanita Louw said. Amy-Leigh was snatched from her mother, Angeline, outside the school on Monday morning by four men in a white Toyota Fortuner. WATCH | Manhunt for Amy-Leigh's kidnappers will continue Vaal Response Unit director Hannes van Zyl told News24 they were "blessed" with Amy-Leigh's return on Tuesday morning. "We didn't anticipate it to go the way it ended," van Zyl said. He added the search for Amy-Leigh de Jager's kidnappers will contin The police then launched a manhunt while her distraught parents, Wynand and Angeline de Jager, waited at the Vanderbijlpark police station for any news until the early hours before she was dropped off by her kidnappers between 02:00 and 02:30 on a street close to the Shakespeare Inn Hotel. READ: Amy-Leigh, 6, after kidnap ordeal: 'I want a burger and my brother' Louw said following Monday morning's incident, things were back to normal and the pupils were happy. She added parents were also supportive and understanding, especially after a meeting was held on Monday evening. "I am so grateful that we could actually be witness to a miracle, because that was what happened at our school." She added the school's management had met with the school governing body on Tuesday morning to discuss more safety precautions to ensure such an incident does not happen again. Fellow pupils also prepared cards, wishing Amy-Leigh well after what may have been a traumatic turn of events for her. Louw said while the little girl was safe in the hands of her parents, she was unsure when she would return back to school and would await a directive from them. As things were returning back to normal, security patrol vehicles continued to be seen roaming the streets around the school's premises. Carmon Jacobs, a parent who was outside facilitating the hanging of the balloons, told News24 she felt blessed that Amy-Leigh was safe. "We went through a terrible time yesterday and we just want to celebrate her life, and her coming back is so awesome. We just felt we have to do something for her, something small but it really means a lot." GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter.