The preliminary hearing of the suspected rapist of an intern doctor at the Pelonomi Hospital in Bloemfontein is expected to continue in the Bloemfontein Magistrate’s Court on Monday (16/09). The matter was postponed on 14 June after the suspect had been referred to undergo psy­chiatric evaluation at a hospital in Bloemfontein to determine his mental fitness to stand trial. The 32-year-old suspect did not apply for bail during his previous appearances, and he did not plead. The suspect has been appearing in court since early June following his arrest in con­nection with the attempted rape of a 24-year-old intern doctor who was working the night shift on 3 June. The incident reportedly occurred at about 23:50 inside the doctors’ restrooms. The female doctor fought back and bit off a piece of her attacker’s tongue in the pro­cess. The suspect has since received plastic surgery to repair his tongue. The victim reportedly escaped the ordeal unharmed. Citing the implementation of safety measures, the University of the Free State (UFS) suspended the training of intern doctors at health facilities in Bloemfontein following the incident. At the time, Mondli Mvambi, spokesperson for the Free State Department of Health, said the intern doctor was also referred to counselling. The suspect was tracked down at another hospital and reportedly napped another local hospital after managing to evade security at the Pelonomi Hos­pital. Mvambi explained that, according to initial information received before the incident, the suspect suffered from social problems and needed the intervention of a social worker. Days before the crime, the suspect (who resides in Bronville, Welkom) reportedly failed to show up for his appointment with the social worker. The attempted rape of the doctor sparked outrage and saw hospital workers embarking on a protest, demanding that the department and the provincial government increase security. Workers also raised grave concerns over the porous security at the Pelonomi Hos­pital. The provincial department has committed itself to launching investigations into this case of attempted rape, as well as the armed robbery of another female doctor at the same hospital.