A correctional
services board has granted parole to convicted rapist and former tennis player
and coach Bob Hewitt. In a letter
seen by News24, from the chairperson of the Correctional Supervision and Parole
Board for St. Albans – a Ms CC Binta – it states that Hewitt will be released
on September 23. The letter
is dated September 12, and states that Hewitt will be placed under "High
Risk category for the duration of his parole which will end on 19 September
2022". This comes
after the board received an application for consideration on August 13, 2019. The
decision was taken in terms of Section 73 (6) (a) of the Correctional Services
Act (Act 111 of 1998). "When
an offender has served the minimum detention period of his/her sentence, he/she
qualifies to be considered by the Correctional Supervision and Parole Board for
placement on parole," the letter explains. Hewitt, 79,
was convicted for the rape of two young women and sexually assaulting another
who he coached in the 1980s and 1990s. He was sentenced to six years in prison. 'No prospects
of rehabilitation' The former
tennis star was found guilty of rape in 2015 and was sentenced
to an effective six years in jail by Judge Bert Bam in the Gauteng High Court
in Pretoria. "There
are clearly no prospects of rehabilitation," Bam said at the time. On Count 1,
for rape, he received an eight-year prison term, suspended for two years on
condition that he pays R50 000 to the Department of Justice to use in campaigns
opposing violence against women. On Count 2,
also for rape, he received the same sentence. On the charge of sexual assault,
he received two years, suspended. If he had
been convicted in his 50s, he would have received at least a 20-year jail term,
Bam added. News24
previously reported that in September 2018, Hewitt had applied for parole, after having served only
two years of his sentence. He later
changed his application and opted to have the remainder of his sentence converted to house arrest, News24 previously
reported. His request
was denied. ALSO
READ: Lawyer says convicted
rapist Bob Hewitt to be released on parole - report The lawyer
who represented two of the three survivors, Tania Koen, told News24 on Sunday
that the survivors were shocked by the letter as they had not made
representations. "Only
one of the three victims received written confirmation. I find it very strange. "The
survivors are very surprised and shocked that they did not get an opportunity
to make representations to the board. One victim told me she felt 'raped again' by this news because there was a total disregard for her rights," Koen
said. As a result
Koen, on behalf of the survivors, wrote to the Deputy Minister of Justice and Correctional
Services, as well as the Portfolio Committee on Justice in Parliament, to seek
an urgent review of the decision. Should this
request, which was written on Friday, not be attended to, Koen intends to lodge
an urgent application in the High Court. "I
have asked them that in terms of the law they need to refer the matter for
reconsideration to the review board of correctional services. "I am
hoping to get a response during the course of the week, I am trusting that it
will be treated as an urgent matter; if we don't get confirmation, we will
launch a High Court application," she said. 