Western Cape police have confirmed that they have recovered the firearms belonging to two City of Cape Town law enforcement officers who died in hospital, after being shot and wounded in Philippi on Wednesday afternoon. The officers were robbed of their firearms during the ambush. After being airlifted to the hospital in a serious condition, executive director for safety and security, Richard Bosman confirmed later that "both officers had passed away". He said the families of the officers had been informed. "The families were at both hospitals (where the officers were admitted to)," Bosman said. The officers were protecting workers at a construction project in Sweet Homes, mayco member for safety and security JP Smith said earlier. Police, however, have not apprehended the suspects involved in the shooting. "The City condemns this gratuitous act of extreme violence perpetrated against the officers who were serving the community," said Smith. Smith also conveyed his condolences to the families of the officers, saying "we have lost members who gave their lives to protect others, while their families lost loved ones and breadwinners. "I urge communities to respect the law and the officers charged with their safekeeping. We need to respect our law enforcement officials who serve our communities and safeguard lives and property." At the same time, DA provincial leader in the Western Cape, Bonginkosi Madikizela said "my thoughts and deepest sympathies are with families of the officers". He added by calling on police to "take swift action to bring these thugs to book". Western Cape police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Andre Traut said the law enforcement officers had been sitting in their marked vehicle when they came under attack. "The suspects fled and are yet to be arrested," said Traut. Any person who can assist police with the investigation is kindly requested to contact Brigadier Bhekie Khumalo on 082 5568642 with their anonymous tipoff. Alternatively Crime Stop can be contacted on 0860010111.