A kidnapping case has been opened after a 15-year-old girl was allegedly abducted in the Eastern Cape. Provincial police spokesperson Captain Mali Govender said the aunt of Siphelele Kila told police that she had been sent by her grandmother to a shop in Joza. “Earlier today (Sunday), Siphelele posted on Facebook that while she was on her way to the shop, a silver-grey Avanza with no number plates stopped next to her. The driver, an African female with two other African males who had a Zulu accent, asked for directions to Extension 7.  She showed them the directions,” Govender said. “The driver allegedly asked her to come with so that she can show them Extension 7 and she got inside the vehicle. They then drove with her towards Ntsika High School and at the robot she asked them where they are going. She was ordered to shut up.” Govender said the vehicle had allegedly stopped at an unknown place and Kila was forced inside the boot where she saw another girl. “The matter was reported at Joza SAPS. A case of kidnapping was opened as well as a missing person enquiry.” It was unclear at which point Kila had made the social media post. Police are investigating the circumstances surrounding her disappearance. Kila had been wearing a white top, black tights and pink sandals at the time of her disappearance. Phone Crime Stop on 08600 10111 or investigating officer Captain Anton Annandale on 082 301 9703. READ: Missing UKZN student Natasha Conabeer dropped, alive but unconscious, on doorstep of her home Meanwhile, UKZN student Natasha Conabeer, who went missing three weeks ago, was found alive on Sunday.The 23-year-old was found unconscious outside her home and is in a critical condition in hospital.Her mother, Rosemary Conabeer, said doctors are doing everything they can for her daughter. "She is still unconscious. We don't know what happened," Conabeer said."I am relieved she was found alive. We're taking this a day at a time."Natasha was last seen on August 18. According to a missing person report, UKZN student left her Florida Road flat for Inanda to visit family. Recently several cases involving violence against and abuse of women made headlines. President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed a large crowd of protesters in front of Parliament on Thursday following protests calling for decisive government action. In a later video, he said sexual offences cases which had been closed or not properly investigated in the past would be reviewed. He also promised harsher sentences for those who commit violence against women. South African women also took to social media, under the hashtag #AmINext, to call for an end to the violence. (Compiled by Tammy Petersen)