Diep River police officers, community members, neighbourhood watch groups and security service providers all worked together on Thursday 29 August to nab five perpetrators in two separate incidents. Constable (Const) Ashley Adonis and Const Shu-Aib Boer were on duty in Diep River on Thursday when they received a housebreaking in progress report. On arrival at the scene – a residential premises in Talent Road, Plumstead – the officers were flagged down by a member of the public who informed them that two men, carrying a large flat-screen TV, were seen fleeing the scene. The officers immediately engaged with Diep River neighbourhood watch groups and security service providers in the area. Thanks to a coordinated effort, the suspects were apprehended after a lengthy chase. The two suspects, a 16-year-old man and an 18-year-old man, were arrested and detained on charges of housebreaking and theft. In a separate incident later that day, the same officers arrested two men (35 and 41, respectively) and one woman (44) for the possession of presumed stolen property. A local security company in Diep River called for police assistance after one of its armed response officers spotted three people acting suspiciously. Carrying a large, heavy bag, they were seen heading towards the Steurhof train station. The officers tracked the three people down and, after further investigation, found that their bag contained a large number of copper pipes and fittings. “No reasonable justification could be given for the possession of the content. Subsequently, the three were arrested on charges of possession of presumed stolen property,” says Const Zak Marais, spokesperson for Diep River police station. The suspects will appear in the Wynberg magistrate’s court once charged. “We would like to express our gratitude towards all the role players who helped in the arrest of these suspects. Policing is about building partnerships. We hope to strengthen these partnerships in our continued efforts to reduce the crime rate to zero,” says Marais.