 Parents in Gauteng
are being urged not to panic as false alerts about pupils being abducted around
Ekurhuleni schools are doing the rounds. The Gauteng
Department of Education said no such incidents took place at any schools during
the sporadic unrest that had hit the province. The department's statement comes on
the back of the kidnapping of six-year-old Amy Leigh de Jager outside her
school on Monday. Reports that were also
circulating on social media that Lungisani Primary School in Katlehong was
torched on Wednesday morning were untrue, Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi said in
a statement. He maintained schools
were safe and back to normal as usual.   "We would like
to appeal to parents to remain calm and urge the community to refrain from disrupting
teaching and learning. We believe that with the ongoing criminal activities,
our schools are a safer and conducive environment for learners than roaming the
streets," Lesufi said. Among those who had shared
information on alleged kidnappings at schools has been senior African
Transformation Movement member and former GCIS CEO Mzwanele Manyi. Manyi took to his
Twitter page, @MzwaneleManyi, saying: "Just got a frantic call from my
relatives in Soweto that Pakistanis are abducting children at school. My blood
is boiling." He has since been
criticised for and accused of fuelling xenophobia by saying Pakistan nationals
were behind the alleged abductions.  Just got a frantic call from my relatives in Soweto that Pakistanis are abducting children at school.My blood is boiling.  Speaking to News24 on
Wednesday afternoon, Manyi said he had acted on information he received from an
unemployed relative of his, based in Soweto. He added the relative had called
him in a panic, seeking transport money so that they could fetch their
child. "The transport
that the fetches the children was not allowed [to pick them up] because the
school principal were seeing these... I don't know how they got to know it was
Pakistanis, in terms of abducting kids. "This school
became vigilant and closed the gates, phoning parents at random to say they
were not allowing bakkies transporting kids, each and every parent must come
and pick up their kids." Manyi said this was
when he decided to spread the word. When News24 asked why he used
"Pakistani" in his statement, he said: "I was repeating what I
was told." He added his relative
had since gone to the school to pick up their kids. While some people
have called for him to take down the tweet because it fuelled violence against
foreign nationals, Manyi said he would not be deleting it. He added his relative
had no reason to randomly call him and accuse Pakistanis of abducting
children. "I will not be
taking it down because I am not fuelling anything. I am just talking what is
true. South Africa must learn to deal with the truth and stop trying to do PR
even when it is not necessary." Manyi said because of
the violence and activities that have been reported over the past few days, he
had no regret about alarming people on Twitter about news he had
received. "I am very
active on Twitter and there is no day that passes by without a report that some
girl has been abducted, this is just too common. Society must not be numb;
everybody must be on their toes." The police said disseminating
news that children from Lungisani Primary School have been abducted, and other
activities, were untrue and sought to instill fear and spark further violence. "Social media
users are urged to utilise the SAPS' social media platforms like Twitter,
Facebook, Instagram and YouTube as well as the website to get factual updates
or to even verify certain information," Gauteng police spokesperson
Brigadier Mathapelo Peters said. Peters said
additional police officers have been dispatched to various areas of the
province until stability was restored. Meanwhile in Tshwane,
the police said despite claims made on various Twitter accounts that five women
were kidnapped in the Hatfield area in Pretoria on Tuesday, no cases have been
opened. Various tweets
reporting the kidnappings have since gained traction, but the police were
adamant this was misinformation and have cautioned people against spreading
unverified information on social media. According to one of
the tweets on Tuesday, four girls were kidnapped in Hatfield. Another tweet by
a different user stated on Wednesday that it was five girls. A video of one of the
alleged kidnappings was also posted to Twitter.    Brooklyn police
spokesperson Captain Colette Weilbach said no cases of kidnapping have been
reported at Brooklyn or Sunnyside police stations and there have been no
reports of missing persons either. "Posts like
these are regarded as very irresponsible and it causes panic and alarm among
the public," Weilbach said in a statement.   "Social media
users are encouraged to use media platforms responsibly and sensibly when
posting. Do not spread information that is false." Had the allegations
of the kidnappings been true, the police would have issued a formal media
statement warning the public, Weilbach added. "Victims and/or
witnesses of crime are urged not to report crimes on social media platforms
alone. It is important to report crime to the SAPS. The SAPS can only
investigate cases like these and execute arrests when a case docket is opened
for investigation."  