It will be a hot to very hot day across parts of the country as temperatures reach the mid-30s in places on Friday. Temperatures along the coast will vary from warm to very hot, as provided by the South African Weather Service. Warnings Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over the interior of the Northern Cape, western parts of both Free State and the North West, Central Karoo of the Western Cape as well as over the western and central parts of the Eastern Cape. Special weather advisories A strong north-westerly wind is expected in places over the interior, especially the western interior of the Northern and Eastern Cape. Extremely hot conditions are expected in places over the eastern interior of the Western Cape, the interior of the Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal. The weather advisories It will be fine and warm in Gauteng. The expected UVB sunburn index will be low. It will be cloudy with morning fog patches along the escarpment of Mpumalanga at first. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and warm. Limpopo will be cloudy in the east at first, with morning fog patches along the escarpment. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and warm but hot in places in the Lowveld. The North West will be fine and hot. It will become partly cloudy in the south from the afternoon. It will be fine and warm to hot in the Free State. It will become partly cloudy in the afternoon. Morning and evening fog is expected along the coast of the Northern Cape where it will be cool. Otherwise, it will be warm, windy and fine. It will become partly cloudy over the interior. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. Morning fog is expected along the coastal areas of the Western Cape. Drizzle is expected in the south-west and adjacent interior. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and warm to hot. It will be windy over the interior but cool in the south-west. Light drizzle is expected over the West Coast in the evening. It will be misty in the south-west. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate. The Eastern Cape is expected to be partly cloudy and hot to very hot but warm to cool in places. The wind along the coast will be moderate. Morning fog patches are expected over the north-eastern interior of KwaZulu-Natal. Otherwise, it will be fine and warm but hot in places. It will become partly cloudy from the west in the afternoon. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. The expected UVB sunburn index will be high.    - Compiled by Naseema Barday Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days