Former president Jacob Zuma has been
interdicted from publishing any statement in the future that "says or
implies" that senior ANC leader Derek Hanekom ''is or was" an enemy
agent or an apartheid spy, the KwaZulu-Natal High Court ruled on Friday. Hanekom took
Zuma to court to the tune of R500,000 for defamation following a tweet on July
25 which Zuma referred to Hanekom as a "known enemy agent". Zuma was reacting to EFF leader Julius
Malema's claims that Hanekom conspired with the party to oust him via a motion
of no confidence in the National Assembly. Judge Dhaya
Pillay declared that Zuma's publication of the tweet was unlawful. "The
respondent is ordered to remove the tweet within 24 hours from all media
platforms including by deleting it in from his Twitter account," Pillay
ordered. Zuma was also
ordered to publish on his Twitter account, within 24 hours, the following
apology: "On 25 July 2019, I published a tweet which alleges that Derek
Hanekom is a known enemy agent. I unconditionally withdraw this allegation and
apologise for making it as if it is false." Hanekom's
lawyers had submitted that to suggest that someone who fought for liberation an
apartheid government spy was defamatory, false and had caused significant
harm to the former tourism minister's reputation. They also wanted Zuma to be
interdicted from telling the Zondo commission into state capture that Hanekom
was an apartheid spy. Hanekom's advocate Carol Steinberg had submitted
that, according to Zuma's answering affidavits, he said he "may" still
testify at the commission that Hanekom was a spy. Pillay made an
order that Zuma was interdicted from publishing any statement that Hanekom was
an apartheid spy or an enemy agent. "The
interdict in the preceding paragraph does not bar the respondent from
testifying truthfully, as he is required to, at the Judicial Commission of
Inquiry into Allegation of State Capture, Corruption and Fraud in the Public
Sector including Organs of State," Pillay ruled. Zuma's lawyer
Muzi Sikhakhane had argued that it was "incompetent" to interdict Zuma from "saying certain
things" when he testified at the Zondo Commission into State Capture. Hanekom was
also awarded damages against Zuma, "the quantum of which is yet to be
determined". "The
determination of the quantum of damages of R500,000 claimed by the applicant
against the respondent is referred for oral evidence," said Pillay. Zuma was also
ordered to pay the applicant's costs, including the costs of two counsel. The matter was
adjourned without a date being.  