A total of 113 "petrol heads" showcased some 53 classic, exotic and collectable vehicles on Western Cape roads this weekend, as part of the Spring Rally to raise money for charity. In attendance at the non-profit event on Saturday morning was Premier Alan Winde, who enjoyed himself while raising money for Atlantic Hope, a safety house for abandoned and vulnerable babies. Speaking at an evening function afterwards, Atlantic Hope's Dani Janks expressed her gratitude at the R200 000 that was raised for the charity, which is legally approved to house up to six babies at one time, for short stays. "We have never had people step up and do this for our organisation. It is life-changing and you are making the most massive difference," Janks told the participants. The convoy travelled from Lourensford Estate in Somerset West, through Caledon and Bonnievale, and ended up in Arniston for an overnight stay. What may have come as a surprise for many of the drivers enjoying the fresh air and open roads was seeing a group of traffic officials with vans, and safety cones and stop signs en route. City of Cape Town traffic services spokesperson Maxine Jordaan confirmed to News24 that they set up a check point with the random breath testing unit and road safety education unit. "It wasn't a roadblock, but a vehicle check point," she said.  Some of the classic vehicles that participated in the Spring Rally this year (Supplied) Officers gave rally participants a bag with goodies such as road safety paraphernalia and disposable breathalysers to create drink driving awareness.Participants had been warned beforehand to have a designated driver if they indulged in more than one drink at lunch.They had also been asked to drive responsibly and be courteous to other road users."One of the core values of the Cape Town services is that we strive to be accessible, meaning that we are available and visible to the community. It was a pleasure to participate in this manner to raise awareness for the Atlantic Hope Organisation," said Jordaan. GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter.     