Police are investigating the murder of a 22-year-old man who
was found hanging from the ceiling at Durban University of Technology’s (DUT)
Stratford Hall residence on Wednesday. The victim
was found dead at the scene and is believed to be a student at the university, SAPS
spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane confirmed. “He was
found hanging from the ceiling of the residence [on 11 September] at about 2.20pm.
There was no weapon with him apart from the rope he hung from. An inquest
docket has been opened,” he said. Stratford Hall is a male residence situated
on DUT’s Steve Biko Campus in Berea. This
follows an earlier violent incident at a DUT lecture hall in which a student
was attacked and robbed. Industrial engineering student Sandile Ndlovu (18) was
brutally assaulted on Monday and is currently fighting for his life at Durban’s
City Hospital. University student accused of making drug app A Northern California college freshman faces felony charges for allegedly creating an iPhone app he dubbed the Banana Plug to sell illicit drugs. Collin Howard on Tuesday pleaded not guilty to federal drug charges in San Jose. Zwane said
the incident happened around 5.30pm. “He was found lying on the chair bleeding.
The attending officials tried to get a first-aid kit for him as it was unknown
who had stabbed him. The attending police official confirmed that the victim
had serious stab wounds on his head and was not sure how many there were.” Sandile’s
uncle, Tshepo Mokoena, said the hospital had given the
family the option to switch off his nephew’s life support because of the
severity of his injuries.  “We chose [to
continue with life support] because the doctors told us the swelling is coming
down and we are hopeful he will recover,” he told Sowetan Live. DUT has had
few answers to the family’s burning questions and told them there was no CCTV
footage of the incident, IOL reports.  “The institution isn’t helpful with
information about what could have happened or any answers to the questions the
family has,” Tshepo said.