Sudan swore in its first cabinet since the removal of former president Omar al-Bashir in April following nationwide protests against his rule. The 18-member cabinet led by Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok, which includes four women, took the oath at the presidential palace in Khartoum on Sunday.  The cabinet is expected to steer the daily affairs of the country during a transition period of 39 months until the general elections. The line-up was formed after Sudan last month swore in a "sovereign council" - a joint civilian-military ruling body that aims to oversee the transition. The 18 ministers were seen greeting members of the sovereign council, including its chief General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, in images broadcast by state television from the palace. The sovereign council itself is the result of a power-sharing deal between protesters and generals who seized power after the army ousted Bashir in April. Hamdok is still negotiating with the pro-democracy movement over the last two cabinet posts.  "The world is watching us. It is waiting to see how we can solve our issues." Reporting from Khartoum, Al Jazeera's Hiba Morgan said the prime minister promised to make bringing peace to the country and reviving a battered economy his government's top priorities.  190906095328502 "The prime minister had said in order to revive the economy and to stabilise it the country needs at least $2bn initially and then another $8bn to continue the recovery," Morgan added. Hamdock and his team will be inheriting a ravaged banking sector, annual inflation at more than 40 percent, with shortages in basic commodities such as fuel and flour - a situation that in December sparked the protests that eventually deposed Bashir.    Rebel groups from marginalised regions of Darfur, Blue Nile, and South Kordofan states had waged long wars against Bashir's forces. "The road ahead is not easy. We will face many challenges but we have to work on them," said Walaa Issam, minister for youth and sports. Bashir is wanted by the International Criminal Court (ICC) for alleged atrocities in the Darfur region more than a decade ago, in a war that killed an estimated 300 000 people and forced 2.7 million from their homes. The conflict broke out in 2003 when ethnic minority groups took up arms against Bashir's Arab-dominated government, accusing it of discrimination and neglect. 