A cold front makes its way across the western half of the country, bringing rain and showers to the Western Cape and parts of the Northern Cape and Eastern Cape on Thursday. Temperatures along the coast are expected to be varied, according to the South African Weather Service. Warnings Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over the northern parts of the Eastern Cape, the eastern parts of the Northern Cape, the Free State, the North West, Gauteng, the western parts of KwaZulu-Natal, the southern parts of Mpumalanga and the south-western parts of Limpopo. Watches Gale force westerly to north-westerly winds (62-70km/h) are expected along the coastal areas between Cape Point and Cape Agulhas in the Western Cape in the evening. Heavy rain, leading to localised flooding is expected in places over the Cape Winelands and Cape Metropole of the Western Cape. Special weather advisories Strong interior winds (50-60km/h) are expected over the southern parts of the Namakwa District of the Northern Cape, and the Central Karoo and Breede River Valley of the Western Cape. The weather in your region It will be fine, windy and warm in Gauteng. The expected UVB sunburn index will be high. Morning fog patches are expected in the eastern parts of Mpumalanga. Otherwise, it will be fine and warm, but hot in the Lowveld. It will be windy in the west. Limpopo will be fine and hot. It will be fine, windy and warm to hot in the North West. It will be fine, windy and warm in the Free State. It will become partly cloudy in the extreme western parts in the evening. The Northern Cape will be partly cloudy and warm in the north and the east. Otherwise, it will be cloudy and cool to cold. Isolated showers and rain are expected in the west, spreading to the central parts in the afternoon. It will be scattered in the southwest. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. It will be cloudy, windy and cool to cold in the Western Cape. Scattered showers and rain are expected, spreading to the eastern parts during the afternoon but widespread in the southwest. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong. The expected UVB sunburn index will be low. The Eastern Cape is expected to be partly cloudy, windy and warm, but cool along the coast. Isolated showers are expected north of Willowmore in the afternoon, and south of the Winterberg in the evening as well as along the coast. The wind along the coast will be moderate. Morning mist is expected over the eastern interior of KwaZulu-Natal. Otherwise, it will be fine and warm, but hot over the interior. The wind along the coast will be light. The expected UVB sunburn index will be high. - Compiled by Naseema Barday Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days