The
millions of rands allocated to protect ministers should rather be going to the South
African National Defence Force (SANDF) so that it can be better equipped to
protect the country's borders, DA Gauteng premier candidate Solly Msimanga
said. Msimanga and a small group of DA
members protested outside the Department of Defence headquarters in Tshwane on
Tuesday, pleading that the army be better resourced to protect the South
African borders. "We are not here to fight
with the SANDF. In fact, we are on the right side of the SANDF, saying we want
to fight the Treasury. Instead of protecting politicians, [government must]
give you (SANDF) the resources so that you can go to the borders and make sure
that you do what needs to be done," Msimanga said. ALSO READ: Protecting
South Africa's borders: Rocky roads and unrelenting conditions WATCH: DA's Solly Msimanga burns e-toll statements Democratic Alliance (DA) Gauteng premier candidate Solly Msimanga on Thursday set alight hundreds of e-toll statements outside the Sanral offices in Centurion. "Instead
of paying millions and millions to protect ministers, we should be giving you
money to make sure that you go and do what needs to be done. "Instead of buying brand new
vehicles time and time again for politicians, we should be buying you vehicles
so you can go and patrol the borders." He said that his party's call to
have soldiers equipped to patrol the borders was not xenophobic, but rather to
ensure no undocumented foreigners enter the country. This will help put a stop
to xenophobic attacks, according to Msimanga. Not
promoting xenophobia "We are not promoting
xenophobic attacks. We need to make sure we live in harmony and peace but the
government's responsibility is to ensure that the borders are protected and
anyone coming in is documented." DA MP Jacques Julius, who has
been travelling to border posts throughout the country, claimed that some
soldiers were also concerned. "Our SANDF is very poorly
resourced; we have gone to all of our border posts and we have spoken to SANDF members.
They told us, our lives are in danger here," Julius said. "Our borders are porous and
people are coming in and out. There are syndicates coming into the country,
criminal syndicates and they are better equipped with ammunition than our own
SANDF members." Julius said that this was not a
fight against foreign nationals, but against the ANC government that was
playing cat and mouse with people's lives. He claimed the ANC was aware of
the documentation problem, but "they don't do anything about it". Budget
cuts affecting SANDF's capacity Last year, the SA army chief,
General Lindile Yam, warned that budget cuts at the SANDF could have an adverse
effect on the army's ability to protect the country. Yam cautioned that when the
military doesn't receive the necessary funding, it cannot fulfil its
constitutional mandate to fully protect the country. According to Yam, the army was
the easiest target for budget cuts and received less than 1% of the GDP,
compared to the international norm of 2% of the GDP. READ MORE:
'It's not a funky chicken jive out there' - SA army chief
slams budget cuts as 'dangerous' 