  The saying ‘having your life flash before your
eyes’ when facing a near death experience is one we are familiar with, some
will even call it cliché but nothing can ever prepare you for that moment when
it eventually happens to you. For Themba Nkuna this became a reality when
what started out as an innocent game of cards with friends came to a
catastrophic end when a taxi crashed into them – almost killing them. It was just a regular day for the 27-year-old
father-of-one. “I was
getting ready for training as I do every Wednesday around that time,” he tells Move!. “I remember changing into tights
and wearing tracksuit pants over them as it was still a bit early for training,”
he says. To pass time while waiting for his soccer
practice to start the father of four-year-old Bokamoso Mjova went across the
road from his house to be around some friends at a usual spot where they
normally hang out as guys and play cards. In a round that consisted of five players,
Themba stepped in as a replacement for his friend unaware that it would not be
long before the game came to a detrimental end when a Toyota Quantum taxi came
uncontrollably at the group. “The first thing we all heard was the sound of
a raving engine, but that did not concern us that much because we are used to
cars spinning in the neighborhood,” Themba explains. The sound got really loud really fast he
continues and what he saw next was the undersides of the taxi, “I looked up and
I remember seeing the undersides of the taxi and it was coming towards us
driving on the two wheels of its side.” From the point on realizing what was coming
towards them Themba says there was not enough time to react before the taxi was
upon them. “I blacked out for a second and when I came too
I remember just hearing the voice of my niece screaming. At that moment I knew
what had happened but I was more focused on what was happening to my body and
what I was feeling” he explains as he exposes his legs from under the hospital
blankets and points to his right leg which was the least injured from the
crash.  “Strangely enough I thought my right leg was
the one which was most affected as I felt no pain in my left leg was which
broke in two separate places. I came to and started shielding my right leg it
with my hands from the people who were around me because it felt really
sensitive and painful.” Across the road at Themba’s house the wreckage
sound of the crash was heard by his older sister, Nomsa Nkuna (35) who was in
the house. “When I heard the sound of the crash I
immediately went outside to see what was going on and as I came outside the
door I heard my daughter screaming and that got to me a bit as I thought she
was the one who was hit by the car” she says. Proceeding outside Nomsa realized that it was
her brother who had been involved in the accident and she immediately proceeded
to the scene to see what was happening. She describes the moment after the accident as
having been an emotional rollercoaster and an unsettling experience, “When I got to him he was bleeding on his legs,
he had bruises on his face and he also had blood coming out of his nose” she
says.  Waiting on the ambulance to arrive she tells us
how her brother started getting erratic, “He was scared because he thought he
was dying. I had to do my best to get him to calm down because he was restless.
He starting saying his body was feeling cold and then he said he was thirty and
that he wanted water” at this stage Nomsa says she was sent into a panic of her
own which almost sent her into early labour. “I tried comforting him but I also started
panicking, taking in the full magnitude of what had happen, which was not good
for my pregnancy. I almost went into early labour” she says. Out of the four guys who were playing cards
with Themba, three managed to escape with no serious injuries. It was just him
and his friend Thokozani Khumalo (29) who sustained injuries that landed them
in the hospital. Thokozani who has since been discharged
sustained a foot injury that required him to have bone blades inserted in his
foot. He recalls the moment clearly and says the driver was doing car tricks
before he lost control, “I think he was trying to do a handbrake turn
because for a second the taxi drifted until it was on the two wheels of its
right side” he tells us. “It started looking like it was falling that’s when
I think he tried to bring it back down, but when the other wheels touched down
that’s when he lost control of it. It came our way and we tried to react but it
was too late” the taxi slammed into the group dragging Themba along before pinning
him to a wall while it pushed Thokozani through the wall before coming to a
stop. “It pushed me into the yard through the wall and I thought I was the only
one injured until I saw Themba” he says. For Themba this ordeal is one which he feels
has robbed him of something special. He has had to go through two surgeries
already to try and reconnect his bones and still has one more procedures to go.
Even with the best outcomes predicted for his prognosis he will never return to
his old self again and his recovery is said to take two years at least. The spokesperson for the
Vosloorus police station Captain Piet Rossouw said, "I can confirm that a
case of reckless and negligent driving has been opened against the taxi driver
and that the matter is still under investigation. His statement has been taken
and as soon as investigation is complete the case will go to court."  