AT least five people were killed and 30 injured on KwaZulu-Natal roads during the Easter holidays. The Transport Department reported that five people were killed on Wednesday night when a minibus taxi, a Golf and two trucks collided on the N11. All five were in the taxi, which was travelling from Johannesburg to Newcastle. ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring said four people were injured on Sunday night when a bakkie crashed into a ditch off Table Mountain Road in Maqongqo. The four men were travelling on the back of the bakkie. Another man was seriously injured on Sunday morning when he lost control of his vehicle, causing it to roll and hit a rock off the R103 in Roosboom, near Ladysmith. In a separate accident, Meiring said seven people were injured on Sunday morning in a bakkie rollover on the R617 in Mafakathini. A man, believed to be in his 30s, was seriously injured on Saturday night when he lost control of his car and crashed into a tree on Muniredy Road in Northdale. On Monday afternoon, seven people, including two children, were injured in a three-car collision on Van Reenen’s Pass on the N3. N3 Toll Concession (N3TC) spokesperson Con Roux said traffic flow was very heavy on the N3 throughout the day on Monday. By 2 pm, Roux said about 2 000 vehicles had gone through the Mooi River toll plaza heading north towards Johannesburg. Roux also urged motorists to have their headlights on while driving in the rain. On Monday afternoon, N3TC shut down the Tugela Toll Plaza heading toward Johannesburg after two large accidents. Roux said traffic was backed up over three kilometres from the toll gate. Transport Minister Blade Nzimande yesterday joined the Easter road safety law enforcement at the Mariannhill toll plaza. He conveyed his condolences to families and friends of those killed in road accidents during this Easter weekend. The minister is expected to announce the final figures of those who died soon. During last year’s Easter holidays, 510 people died on South African roads, marking a 14% increase from 2017.