The Electoral Commission of South Africa (IEC) has dismissed all but one of the 52 objections to political party lists ahead of the May 8 general elections. The only objection that was upheld was that against former PAC president Alton Mphethi. Mphethi, who faced an objection from his own party, was disqualified for having been sentenced to 18 months’ imprisonment without the option of a fine in 2016. "The Commission dismissed all other objections for failing to meet the constitutional and statutory criteria. The majority of these objections related to unproven allegations," IEC commissioner Mosotho Moepya said at a media briefing on Tuesday. The ANC received the largest number of objections, with 29. This was followed by the BLF with 19 objections; 13 against candidates representing the EFF; four against the DA; and one each against the ACDP, AIC, ACM and ATA. Moepya said the IEC would only reveal the list of those who had been objected against once a process of reviews and appeals was complete. Candidates will have until April 11 to make appeals to the Electoral Court. "We have a set of rules that are prescribed in law. We have no discretion. We apply the letter of the law. We do not enact it, Parliament does. There is no requirement on integrity or on transparency." IEC rejects ANC claim The majority of the objections which the IEC received were based on allegations of corruption, News24 understands. Some of those in the ANC who had been objected against were Nomvula Mokonyane, Malusi Gigaba and Bathabile Dlamini. Moepya added that the Electoral Act only disqualified candidates who had been convicted of an offence and sentenced to more than 12 months imprisonment, without the option of a fine. This disqualification ends after five years. Moepya has again rejected claims by the ANC that it can withdraw candidates from its nomination lists for Parliament and provincial legislatures. Moepya told journalists that under no circumstances could candidates be removed from lists, unless instructed by the courts. "From the electoral commission's point of view, the candidates we now have - unless reviewed by the court - are the candidates we have going into this election," he said. The ANC is currently undergoing a vetting process through its integrity committee to root out all the candidates who have brought the party into disrepute. Speaking to journalists on Monday, elections head Fikile Mbalula insisted the party could, if prompted by the committee, ask nominees to step down. 