Drunk drivers continue to be a concern for officials, as more and more drivers are arrested for driving under the influence in the city.The City of Cape Town’s Traffic Service and Metro Police Department made 125 arrests and issued 1 676 fines for various traffic and by-law offences recently, including 23 arrests for drunk-driving at one illegal street racing event. The City’s enforcement agencies remain very concerned about the rate of drunk-driving on the metro’s roads. Further, 83 of the total arrests made were on charges of driving under the influence, while 34 of those arrested were taken into custody for outstanding warrants.On Sunday 24 March, officers swooped in on an illegal drifting/spinning event in the Scottsdene area, resulting in 23 arrests for drunk-driving. The highest breath-alcohol reading was nearly five times above the legal limit at 1.16mg per 1000ml. “The combination of drunk-driving and illegal street racing is a double threat to those who partake in these activities, but also law-abiding road users who far too often fall victim to the actions of reckless and negligent drivers. We will keep on enforcing road traffic rules and bring those offenders to book,” says Mayco member for safety and security, JP Smith. Two motorists were arrested for drunk-driving on Friday 22 March after they were involved in a collision at Prince George Drive and Princess Vlei Road. “There is merit in the ‘Bobby on the beat’ approach, as these arrests prove. Foot patrols not only give officers a different advantage to enforcement, as criminals tend to be on the lookout for law enforcement vehicles, but it also provides an opportunity for staff to interact with members of the public and to gain valuable intelligence that helps drive enforcement efforts,” says Smith.. Drunk drivers continue to be a concern for officials, as more and more drivers are arrested for driving under the influence in the city.The City of Cape Town’s Traffic Service and Metro Police Department made 125 arrests and issued 1 676 fines for various traffic and by-law offences recently, including 23 arrests for drunk-driving at one illegal street racing event. The City’s enforcement agencies remain very concerned about the rate of drunk-driving on the metro’s roads. Further, 83 of the total arrests made were on charges of driving under the influence, while 34 of those arrested were taken into custody for outstanding warrants.On Sunday 24 March, officers swooped in on an illegal drifting/spinning event in the Scottsdene area, resulting in 23 arrests for drunk-driving. The highest breath-alcohol reading was nearly five times above the legal limit at 1.16mg per 1000ml. “The combination of drunk-driving and illegal street racing is a double threat to those who partake in these activities, but also law-abiding road users who far too often fall victim to the actions of reckless and negligent drivers. We will keep on enforcing road traffic rules and bring those offenders to book,” says Mayco member for safety and security, JP Smith. Two motorists were arrested for drunk-driving on Friday 22 March after they were involved in a collision at Prince George Drive and Princess Vlei Road. “There is merit in the ‘Bobby on the beat’ approach, as these arrests prove. Foot patrols not only give officers a different advantage to enforcement, as criminals tend to be on the lookout for law enforcement vehicles, but it also provides an opportunity for staff to interact with members of the public and to gain valuable intelligence that helps drive enforcement efforts,” says Smith.