The South African Weather Service has issued a warning of extremely high fire danger conditions over the central and the western interior of the Northern Cape and the central and eastern parts of the Western Cape. Strong interior winds are expected over the southern Namakwa District of the Northern Cape and the Central Karoo of the Western Cape. The weather in your region It will be fine in the extreme south of Gauteng, otherwise it will be partly cloudy and cool but warm in the north. The expected UVB sunburn index is moderate. In Mpumalanga, it will be cloudy in the east in the morning with fog patches along the escarpment and the southern parts, otherwise partly cloudy and warm but hot in the Lowveld. It will become fine from late afternoon. Cloudy conditions can be expected in the east of Limpopo in the morning with fog patches along the escarpment, otherwise it will be partly cloudy and warm. It will become fine from late afternoon. The North West will have fine and warm conditions but partly cloudy in the central and eastern parts in the afternoon. There will be morning fog patches in the extreme north-east of the Free State at first, otherwise fine and cool to warm can be expected. The Northern Cape will be cool along the coast with morning and evening fog, otherwise it will be fine and hot to very hot but warm in the east. It will become partly cloudy over the western parts during the afternoon. It will be windy in places over the interior. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate westerly to south-westerly. In the Western Cape it will be foggy along the coastal areas and adjacent interior at first, otherwise fine to partly cloudy and cool to warm but hot to very hot in places over the interior and along the south coast. It will become foggy along the south coast by evening. The wind along the coast will be light and variable becoming light westerly to north-westerly in the west and south-west. The expected UVB sunburn index is moderate. There will be mist along the coast of the Eastern Cape in the morning, otherwise fine and warm, but hot in places in the central parts. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate northerly, becoming north-easterly. In KwaZulu-Natal, it will be partly cloudy in the north at first with morning fog patches over the interior, otherwise fine and warm but cool on the south-western high-ground. The wind along the coast will be moderate north-easterly. The expected UVB sunburn index is moderate.  Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days 