The relaunch of Lameze Abrahams Psychologists went off without a hitch despite the fire that ravaged the front desk of the premises a few days before the event. Lameze Abrahams, an experienced clinical psychologist was joined by enthusiastic family, friends and colleagues in the healthcare sector when she hosted the event in Eastridge on last Friday. Before briefly addressing mental health challenges that communities are faced with, she thanked her father whom she said has been her pillar of strength, and her beloved mother who had passed away. “I want to thank my father, he is an amazing man. And also my mother who passed away,” a visibly emotional Abrahams lamented. She described how passionate she was about the community and that she could have chosen to have her premises somewhere posh but decided to bring it to the community. She said that mental health was everybody’s business and that the community needed to come together to address it. “We need to have a conversation about these issues. Depression is one of the big issues in our community and it needs us to collectively deal with it, hence I brought my practice to the community – close to the people,” she said. She has been in the field for more than 15 years and said that there was a need in the community for more mental and wellness centres that would address the dire need to curb these mental health challenges. Her passion for community work makes her see no limits and she would not mind going to nearby schools to do presentations for children and educators about these types of issues. Present at the event was Marcus Teunissen, who is also in the healthcare space. He congratulated Abrahams for placing her practice in the community where the services were needed the most. Also in attendance to share relevant information with regards to mental health was Carole Bredeveldt. She is a resident and an educator in the Eastridge community. “A lot of the children that we teach have emotional problems that affect their learning,” said Bredeveldt. She said that understanding children with emotional challenges was more important than teaching them. “They struggle to concentrate when they have issues. Solving that first was important,” said Bredeveldt. She also applauded Abrahams’ act of bringing the practice to the community, saying that the presentation by Abrahams was very informative and much-needed.