Claims that foreign nationals who migrated to South
Africa are responsible for the pressure on public services are not
correct, Professor Loren Landau said on Wednesday. Landau is the director of the African Centre for
Migration and Society at the University of the Witwatersrand. Landau, Scalabrini Centre head of advocacy Sally
Hurt, refugee rights lawyer Popo Mfubu, and Scalabrini Centre advocacy and
child protection officer Sindisiwe Moyo participated in a panel discussion
chaired by Daily Maverick journalist Rebecca Davis at the Scalabrini Centre. The centre is a stone's throw from Parliament in Cape
Town's CBD. Landau said South Africa was the number one
destination for African migrants globally. Almost half of the African migrants
entering South Africa end up in Gauteng and the Western Cape was the second
most popular destination. He said despite this, there are far fewer foreign
nationals in the country than what most people presume. "In most of South Africa, there is almost
nobody," he said. He added that it was not correct that poor foreigners were
responsible for using all the services. Hurt said immigration was definitely an election
issue. She said it was irresponsible to claim that migrants were burdening the
public health system and added that there were no statistics to show who
received public health services – whether they were locals or foreigners. According to Hurt, foreign nationals are
"really easy scapegoats when you fail to do proper resource
planning". Mfubu said South Africa has a very good legal
refugee framework and the Refugee Act of 1998 provides for very liberal and
progressive access to services for refugees. However, the implementation is "quite
terrible", Mfubu said. The Department of Home Affairs is closing some of
its offices for asylum seekers and rejecting most applications. He said subsequent amendments, which are yet to
take effect, watered down the act. "Simply trying to create a legal wall around
South Africa is not going to work."