The jailed father of a missing boy called YOU from prison this week. Nantes Nortjé, the father of Liam Nortjé from Harrismith in the Free State, called YOU out of the blue from prison this week. "I only got your letter now," were the first words Nantes, 48, said to YOU’s journalist. YOU had requested comment from him months ago. He’s expected to be charged later this year in the magistrate’s court in Harrismith in connection with the disappearance of his then two-year-old son, Liam. It hasn’t been confirmed whether charges will include only kidnapping, or if charges of attempted murder or even first-degree murder will be added. To this day, Nantes hasn’t said a word about the whereabouts of Liam, who would’ve turned four years old on March 21.     Last month Wynette, 20, Liam’s eldest sister, told YOU her wish for her little brother is that he knows it’s his birthday and that he’s being spoilt. Police suspect Liam may have been murdered on the day of his disappearance, November 21, 2017, and that’s why Nantes refuses to speak. Then came the phone call from the Harrismith prison. He doesn’t have much time, he says. YOU’s journalist: "Please just tell us, is Liam still alive." "I know Liam’s alive. He’s safe," comes the answer, with conviction. But why won’t he tell police or his estranged wife, Liam’s mom, Cheinelle, where he is? "Cheinelle was a bad mother. All I’m trying to do is to protect my children. I’m sorry for what my family, my brothers and sisters, have had to endure so far." Is he doing it to punish Cheinelle?  "Cheinelle was the best wife in the world, that I ever had . . . But she wasn’t a good mom. I’m doing it to protect our children." Apart from Liam and Wynette, Nantes and Cheinelle also have a teenage daughter. Shortly before Liam’s disappearance, Cheinelle had told Nantes she wasn’t willing to give their marriage a second chance. On the phone, we ask Nantes what Cheinelle did to anger him? He goes on to make allegations against a female friend of Cheinelle’s. YOU contacted Cheinelle and told her about Nantes’ allegations. "It’s nothing new, coming from him. All he does is lie," she said. She added the hateful allegations against her and her friend, who’s stood by her through it all, are "childish". KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 