Basic
Education Minister Angie Motshekga is confident that, if all goes according to
plan, pit toilets can be eradicated within two years. Announcing the findings of the
2017 School Monitoring Survey in Tshwane on Monday, Motshekga said the Basic
Education Department has managed to break through the glass ceiling with regard
to sanitation. "As you know, the president
has made money available to eradicate pit latrines within three years,"
Motshekga said. "Since we launched the
Sanitation Appropriate for Education (SAFE) [initiative] in August last year,
some 234 projects out of 3 998 have reached practical completion." READ: Pit
toilet deaths a reminder of delayed service delivery – Ramaphosa "This
value was only marginally improved from 2011. "Outside of the SAFE initiative,
a further 787 provincial sanitation projects are at practical and final
completion in the 2018/19 financial year. Overall, we have delivered decent
sanitation to over 10 621 schools since 2000," Motshekga said. 76% of
schools have running water The minister said she was
confident that they can eradicate pit latrines within two years "if all
goes well". She added that with budget
commitments, support from the Department of Environmental Affairs, the
Department of Water and Sanitation, as well as private role players, adequate
sanitation at all schools will become a reality before 2022. According to the survey, which
Motshekga said was worrying, only 76% of schools had running water and 80% had
adequately functioning sanitation. Government
not moving fast enough In August last year, President
Cyril Ramaphosa conceded that not enough had been done to rid schools of pit
toilets and government was not moving fast enough, he said. Ramaphosa said at the time that
there were still 3 998 schools across the country that had only pit toilets.
According to an audit done by the basic education department, a further 3 040
schools did not have proper sanitation and pit toilets were not demolished. The provinces worst affected are
KwaZulu-Natal, the Eastern Cape and Limpopo. Ramaphosa added that government
heard the pleas from South Africans after two children had fallen into pit
latrines and drowned in recent years. READ: Another child drowns in
a pit toilet "The utterly tragic and
devastating deaths of children so young and so innocent remind us of the human
consequences of service delivery delayed," said Ramaphosa. "They remind us that we must
focus all our attention not on what we have achieved, but on what we
haven't." Five-year-old Lumka Mketwa
drowned after she fell into a pit latrine at Luna Junior Primary School in the
Eastern Cape in 2018. In 2014, Michael Komape, also five years old, drowned in
a pit toilet at Mahlodumela Primary School in Limpopo. Ramaphosa said although
significant progress in addressing the backlog had been made, more work was
needed. "In the public school
system, since the advent of democracy, over 11 000 schools have been provided
with flush toilets linked either to a municipal connection or a septic
tank." Teacher
absenteeism still concerning Motshekga also noted with concern
that the survey found no discernible change in the rate of teacher absence
since 2011. "The survey recorded an
increase in the national aggregate absence (from 8% to 10%) on an average day,
Motshekga said. "This is deeply troubling.
We must do more to support our teachers. There's a need to drill deeper into
the statistics to understand this leave of absence phenomenon." Good news, however, is that at a
national level, learners' access to libraries increased significantly from 45%
in 2011 to 62% in 2017, the survey showed. 