Dr Ruben Richards, CEO of the Cape Chamber of Commerce and Industry, is back by popular demand to deliver a talk about the first inhabitants of Simon’s Bay. The talk, set for Saturday 6 April, will be the second edition of the Bastaards or Humans lecture, which delves into the history of Simon’s Town and South Africans as a whole. It will be held at the Simon’s Town Museum. The talks are based on the books by Richards, which give the public a greater perspective into the origins of coloured people and how the race ties into society today. “The book’s greatest strength is that it provides a proper historical and geographical context for what has become a highly emotive topic in post-apartheid South Africa: the place and role of coloured identity in a racially polarised society,” Calvyn Gilfellan, CEO of Castle of Good Hope, commented on the first volume of the book. The two volumes of the book were released in 2017 and 2018, with more than 400 copies of the first book being donated to schools across the Western Cape in March last year. The donation and wide distribution of the book was supported by the provincial department of education at the time, with education spokesperson Jessica Shelver commenting: “I must wholeheartedly thank Richards and his foundation for their generous donation of this valuable resource to our high schools, which narrates so accurately the true account of the coloured community’s history. I hope it also serves as an inspiration of what can be achieved by our learners.” The previous talk, held at Simon’s Town Museum on Saturday 13 October, was deemed by the public as a success, attracting almost 90 people to the venue and impressing them enough to call for a second edition of the insightful lecture. “[It is] very informative and addresses a topic not well-known by South Africans, and coloured people. [It is about the] first inhabitants of Simon’s Bay and South Africa, and the link to the coloured people. [People should attend to] know more about their history and heritage because indigenous people of Simon’s Town were Khoisan,” Richards explains. V 
  For more information contact the Simon’s Town Museum on 021 786 3046.