SWIFT action from a domestic worker saved the life of her employer who was attacked and robbed in her home in Greytown last    week. “I thank God because He used the means of my maid to save me [from the armed men],” said the 67-year-old woman who was robbed by two suspects who entered her home in Oak Street on March 26. The victim, who did not want to be named, told the Gazette about her ordeal that she said lasted about 10 minutes. When the suspects forced entry into her house, one     of the armed men tried to suffocate her with a table cloth. Both of her hands were tied with a rope before the suspects forced her to go into her bedroom to remove cash. “I was home alone cleaning the house. The back and front doors were open. “I was sitting on the chair when I saw that there was somebody standing at the back door. “His face was not covered with a balaclava. “I suspected that there was something wrong so I stood up from the chair and went to close the door. “The second man appeared and pushed the door and came inside. “I fell on the floor, and they got hold of me. “I started screaming and he asked me to keep quiet while threatening me with scissors,” she said. The woman said she noticed one of the men had a gun in his hands. The screams of the victim alerted the domestic worker’s daughter, who stays in an outside building on the property. “She told her mother that she heard me screaming. “She also ran to my daughter’s house across the road to alert her. “Her mother came into my house to investigate, coming to the kitchen and calling me: ‘makoti makoti.’ “She heard me telling them to let me get up, and she also went to see my daughter. “As she opened the gate, she saw security [officers] going past, and stopped them. “While I was on the floor, my cellphone rang. “When the two men heard the phone and the sound bell, one ran away while the other one remained in the house. “The third man did come into the house,” she said. Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane said: “Unknown armed males allegedly entered a house in Oak Street and demanded cash at gunpoint. “They allegedly took cash and fled. “One of the suspects was arrested with cash suspected to be taken during a robbery and an unlicensed firearm in his possession. “He was charged and he appeared in the Greytown Magistrate’s court.”