Bringing together a balance of power and
efficiency without compromising on design and looks has always been a challenge
for smartphone makers. However, if you are on the lookout for a powerful new
smartphone that not only looks good and delivers on performance, but at the
same time is capable of taking some of the most stunning pictures taken on a
smartphone camera, then the HUAWEI P30 Pro is the one. A proud member of
Huawei’s P30 series, the HUAWEI P30 Pro is packed with more than just a
powerful camera. Let’s take a look. One
of the finest cameras on a smartphone Dubbed as the Supercamera Phone, the HUAWEI
P30 Pro comes with a revolutionary Leica Quad Camera setup, the first of its kind.
The HUAWEI P30 Pro packs in four lenses which includes a 40MP main camera with
the HUAWEI SuperSpectrum sensor, a 20MP Ultra-Wide angle lens for horizontal
and vertical shooting, an 8MP telephoto lens with SuperZoom capabilities and a
HUAWEI Time of Flight (ToF) camera for beautiful portrait shots with rich bokeh
and sophisticated depth information capture. Innovative features in the camera setup
include the SuperSpectrum lens which allows for more light to enter the camera
sensors, allowing for crisp and clear photos and videos even in low light
conditions, while the SuperZoom lens allows the camera to zoom up to 5x optical
zoom, 10x hybrid zoom and 50x digital zoom. Thanks to the Optical Image
Stabilization (OIS) and Huawei’s AI Stabilization (AIS), users can enjoy
blur-free images and videos, be it at low-light, extreme zooms or even while
moving. Additionally, the HUAWEI P30 Pro also comes with Dual-View Video1,
a revolutionary new way to record videos using multiple cameras for different
perspectives. This mode will split the screen into two customizable views, one
close-up and one wide-angle, for a more creative video creating experience. [1] Feature
will be enabled via HOTA update at a later date. The
Battery to support it all To run such heavy hardware, the HUAWEI P30
Pro is packed with a massive 4,200 mAh battery, so that you don’t run out of
power even after an entire day of intensive use. Now just in case you do, not
to worry, as the HUAWEI P30 Pro features the HUAWEI SuperCharge, which supports
40W charging, enough to bring the phone back up to 70 percent in just 30
minutes. You can also charge your phone wirelessly as the HUAWEI P30 Pro
supports 15W HUAWEI Wireless Quick Charge. As an added feature, the HUAWEI P30 Pro
comes with the Wireless Reverse Charging technology, which lets users to use
their phones as a wireless power bank to charge other wireless charging enabled
devices such as wearables and earphones, or even other phones, provided they
support the Qi Wireless Charging standard. Powerful
hardware under the hood Under the hood, the HUAWEI P30 Pro houses
some impressive hardware. At its heart lies the Kirin 980, Huawei’s flagship
chipset and fastest one yet. The chipset plays a key role in handling complex
processes in creating a great shot. This is done thanks to smart scene
detection, facial detection and tracking, image stabilization, depth
perception, RAW image noise reduction and a full RGB color production, all of
which contribute towards that perfect shot. Additionally, it also houses Mali-G76 as
its GPU further boosted by GPU Turbo 3.0 for an improved gaming experience by
enhancing gaming graphics and ensuring smoother performance by removing lag. HUAWEI P30 Pro users can also enjoy 8GB of
RAM for faster processing and smoother performance. Storage options include
both 256GB and 512GB, giving users more space for all their photos, videos,
apps and more. A
software built for everyone The HUAWEI P30 Pro comes with a new and
improved EMUI 9.1, which bridges the gap between hardware and user experience.
Built on the philosophy of “Enable a Quality Life”, the EMUI 9.1 syncs all the
elements of the HUAWEI P30 Pro and provides an efficient, balanced and
user-friendly experience. Inspired by timeless aesthetics and a minimalistic
concept, the EMUI 9.1 is built around a design language to provide a soothing,
natural experience. Additionally, the system software also uses Huawei’s
Extendable Read-Only File System (EROFS) for an improved operating smoothness
and efficiency. A
fingerprint sensor and speakers within the display The HUAWEI P30 Pro comes with a stunning
6.47 inch FullView display that is built into its unibody design. The display
is composed of two double curved glass panes that curve at the sides and a
dewdrop notch for maximizing the viewing experience. The display also uses an
OLED panel and supports a resolution of 2340x1080, for a sharp details from
corner to corner. However, the display does more than just
‘looking good’, as it is packed with a few innovative features as well. The
HUAWEI P30 Pro’s display comes with the HUAWEI Acoustic Display Technology,
which takes away the need for having a telephone receiver on the screen, paving
the way for even slimmer bezels. This is made possible by generating sound from
the vibrations of the screen, which are now less noticeable while still
providing similar audio quality. The display also houses an In-Display
Fingerprint Sensor where users can just place their finger on the display to
unlock it. Pulling
off those good looks All these high-end features are packed into
a stunning body that takes the concepts of premium design one step further.
Inspired by natural elements, the HUAWEI P30 Pro is designed to represent the
beauty of salt flats and its different looks during the day. The body of the
phone is also secured against dust and water, proudly boasting its IP68 rating. This feature packed phone can now be yours,
as the HUAWEI P30 Pro is now available at all leading retail outlet and HUAWEI
stores. This post and content is sponsored, written and provided by Huawei.