Investigative journalism is, at the best of times, a lonely
and thankless job. Trawling through company reports and directors' listings,
meeting dodgy characters in dangerous locations and leeching bank statements
and deposit slips whilst trying to link all of this with the subject matter
takes a lot of patience, girded loins and clarity of thought. South Africa has a rich history of investigative journalists,
including the Rand Daily Mail team who exposed the Information Scandal in the
late 1970s and the Vrye Weekblad crew (relaunching today, incidentally) who exposed
apartheid's hit squads in the 1980s. Former president Jacob Zuma's lost decade of state capture,
grand corruption and maladministration has certainly given the country's
current crop of muckrakers more than enough crap to dig into, with painstaking
forensic investigations becoming the norm. Journalists from amaBhungane, Daily
Maverick, News24, the Mail & Guardian and other publications have all waded
into this murky world with success over the last decade, exposing illegal
dealings, criminality and theft. It is in this crowded field that Pieter-Louis Myburgh
released Gangster State: Unravelling Ace
Magashule's Web of Capture. Myburgh, a former journalist at Rapport and
News24 and now with Daily Maverick, spent more than a year researching the
empire that Magashule built in the Free State before being elevated to arguably
the second most powerful position in the ANC, that of secretary general. Gangster State is
a meticulous and thorough examination of Magashule's world in which Myburgh
combines documentary evidence with first-person accounts of the former Free
State premier's networks, confidantes and arrangements. The book is published at a most opportune time as well,
giving the ANC the opportunity to demonstrate its stated commitment to rooting
out corruption ahead of an important election, one in which the corruption of
ANC leaders is a major election issue. The value in Myburgh's book is in his description and
analysis of how the Magashule eco-system works (because apparently his move
from Free State House to Luthuli House has done little to diminish his
influence in the province). You won't find Magashule's fingerprints on an EFT transfer
or a chain of WhatsApp messages demanding 10% from a tender that was just
issued. But you will find a network of acolytes and hangers-on – 'blessees',
even – who moved in Magashule's orbit and who benefitted from provincial
contracts. It is this crowd that, according to Myburgh's book, did the dirty
work for "Mr Ten Percent" (so called because that is seemingly his
cut from big tenders). Some of the most riveting chapters are the those that deal
with the travails of Igo Mpambani, a slick Welkomite who made it big thanks to
his connection to Magashule. Mpambani was gunned down in broad daylight in
Sandton in June 2017 while driving his gleaming Bentley. But what made this
murder interesting was that the car was carrying almost a million rand in cash,
and that by the time of his death Mpambani pretty much acted as Magashule's
bagman. Mpambani and his partner, Edwin Sodi, scored a neat contract
of more than R255m to do an audit on behalf of the provincial government to
determine how many RDP houses had asbestos in the ceilings. But their company,
set up specifically to manage this project, did not have the skills or
capabilities to do the work. Instead they subcontracted it for R21m (and based
on Myburgh's investigations, a grossly exorbitant fee) and pocketed a cool
R230m. As grotesque as it might seem, a tender of R255m won't even
feature in South Africa's corruption hall of fame. In this case however,
Myburgh is able to forensically show how Mpambani used the proceeds of his
labour to the benefit of Magashule and the governing party. And he is even able
to make the links directly to Magashule's office in Bloemfontein. Whilst R255m,
when compared to the Guptas, might seem small, this contract helps the reader understand
how the capture network in Magashule's Free State functioned, how it disbursed
money and how the former premier's demands were communicated. Myburgh, author of the bestselling Republic of Gupta, was able to take a year out from his day job
thanks to a grant from the Taco Kuiper Foundation, something which he hopes
other investigative journalists will also consider. The result is a deep dive
into Magashule's embellished record as a "struggle hero", his early
days as a powerbroker in the province, his many clashes with Mosioua Lekota and
Beatrice Marshoff (both whom he succeeded as premier) and his bizarre sense of
entitlement to state-owned cattle at the Glen Agricultural College outside of
the provincial capital. Gangster State
takes the many allegations of corruption levelled against Magashule over the
years, unearths new allegations – and importantly, documentary evidence – and
describes an arrogant and dangerous political leader who has not hesitated to
manipulate and gerrymander to get what he wants. This book has seemingly not been read by anyone inside the
ANC, who have tried its collective best to bury their heads in the sand.
Magashule has strong support across the board in the party and won't be felled
easily. But even if the ANC does not read it, it surely should be of
great interest to Shamila Batohi, the national director of public prosecutions.
Gangster State could easily serve as
the basis of a charge sheet or a police docket. Along with Crispian Olver's How to steal a city, Gangster
State gives the public graphic insight into the anatomy of corruption and
capture. Myburgh's book will be tested. I suspect he wants nothing
less.