After realising that there was a need for someone to look after the elderly in the community, Audrey May (39), with other men and women, decided to start a club. May and her friends in Tafelsig started Lost City Sonskyn Seniors Club to help the elderly in their area. A small business owner, May says that she noticed that seniors in her area frequently pop into her shop, sometimes not to buy but to chat, silently highlighting that the elderly are both hungry and lonely. To attest to that, many people had been encouraging her to start up something that would accommodate or deal with the elderly. She finally heeded the call. “In our community, there are a lot of elderly people who do not have anybody to help them with simple things like to walk with them to the park or help them take their medication,” she says. She also indicates that she does not mean that the elderly do not have children or grandchildren, but they are sometimes at school or at work. The club takes care of senior citizens by giving them a meal in the morning and afternoon, before they take their medication. This happens from 10:00 to 13:00 every day “They come to my house, I give them a sandwich or any food that I have prepared,” she says. During the first few weeks of starting out, they were giving the elders food that the members bought with their own money. Due to increasing costs, the club decided to ask members to make a monthly contribution of R50 which they use to buy groceries and prepare for the elderly. Aletta Samuels (65), coordinator and an assistant, says what they wish for is to continue for a long time but it can only happen if the club is able to get funding or donations from anyone who wishes to support. “One of the things that I do is go out to approach business owners and ask for money and tell them for what I will use it for,” reveals Samuels. She says that club members go all out and each brings what they can, maybe margarine to make something for the elderly. Part of the club is Annierees Rees (80) who says she always makes sure that she brings something because giving makes her happy. For Rees, being a member of the club means that she can also socialise. “You cannot talk about everything with children so being with these men and women means that I can share with them what I need to,” she explains. Looking at the future, she says that they wish to keep the club running and one of these days take the elders for walks to the park or to the beach where they can relax and forget about the harsh realities of their neighbourhood, she says. They also appeal to anyone who wishes to support them to do so, so that the club can grow and continue to feed those in need.