A KwaZulu-Natal hospital employee was shot dead on Friday and according to the KwaZulu-Natal health department, her husband killed her before turning the gun on himself. The woman, Zamadeyi Goodness Ngaleka, 38, was employed as the financial officer at Rietvlei Hospital in Umzikhulu. She was in a vehicle outside their home in Murchison when she was shot. A neighbour discovered the couple's lifeless bodies after he had noticed the car parked in front of the house while the hazards were on, the health department said in a statement. KZN Health MEC Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo said the shooting was a cruel end to the life of a dedicated public servant, who was described by her colleagues as "reliable, friendly, straightforward and hard-working". Dhlomo visited the hospital on Tuesday to comfort Ngaleka's colleagues and relatives. He urged women to try and leave abusive relationships before it was too late. "A week ago, we were at a memorial service for two staff members who died in a painful way. One was shot while about to enter a clinic and the other died suddenly while working in the theatre. Now, seven days later, we are at Rietvlei after one of our staff members was shot by her husband. We really mourn her loss," Dhlomo said during the visit. Dhlomo urged couples to love and respect each other. "If the love and respect are not reciprocated, just get out of that relationship before we get to such a tragic incident. Yes, you might contemplate whether you'd be able to survive and take care of your children alone, but God will provide… rather than to stay in a relationship that has such an ending," he said. After obtaining a Diploma in Finance Management at Oxbridge Academy in 2012, Ngaleka worked in financial positions at St Andrews, St Apollinaris, and Gamalakhe health centres. She was appointed senior finance service officer at Rietvlei Hospital in 2016. "We are here now, talking of two children - an 18-year-old and a four-year-old - who are without parents because of a relationship that has gone so badly, that in the end, we find a man killing a woman in this way. We send our condolences to both families… because even the family of the perpetrator did not send him to do something like this. We send words of comfort to the hospital and the entire team of those who worked with her," said Dhlomo. Ngaleka is expected to be laid to rest on Sunday in Gamalakhe. Port Shepstone police are investigating a murder and an inquest, spokesperson, Captain Nqobile Gwala, said. "It is alleged two bodies of a couple, both aged 38 years, were found with gunshot wounds inside the vehicle at Murchison area, on 5 April 2019, at 23:25," Gwala said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 