"We need a police station," pleaded Dunoon ward councillor Lubabalo Makeleni on Monday after another two people were burnt to death in a suspected vigilante attack in the suburb north of Cape Town. Makeleni was speaking after the charred bodies of two men suspected of being behind a spate of robberies was found on Sunday near the Siyahlala section of Dunoon. "The community dealt with them and burnt them. It was horrible," said Makeleni. He said he was not present, but was told that various stolen items had been found in their shack before they were set alight and their bodies dumped in the area which is near Blouberg and Milnerton. "People are fed up with the slow response from law enforcement agencies. We do not even have a dedicated police station, said Makeleni, providing some insight into the horrific turn of events. He said people get robbed when they are walking from or to their homes, or attacked in their homes. Men have also been raped. "People have been calling for a police station in the community, and they do not get the service they deserve," said the ANC councillor for ward 104 in the City of Cape Town. He said the torching of the suspected robbers was wrong, and highlighted how much a dedicated police station is needed - and not just a small satellite station. This would also help resolve the confusion between police themselves over whose precinct a crime falls under because the area is subdivided into three for the sake of policing. This means residents have to figure out whether they should call the Table View, Milnerton or Philadelphia police to report a crime. If it happens in one section of Dunoon, Milnerton, much further way, is responsible, instead of the much closer Table View police station, he explained. The police officers themselves become confused over whether the crime falls under their jurisdiction because of these subdivisions, he continued. There is more confusion later over which court an arrested person should appear in - whether it is Atlantis or Cape Town magistrate's court. People living in the Temporary Resettlement Area of Wolwerivier do not have money to pay for the pillar-to-post travelling involved in figuring in out which police station they should go to if they need assistance. Makeleni said people are fed up with the "skollies", and the way they return to the streets after a quick court appearance. He said a police was way overdue for the area, which he said was growing extremely fast with an estimated population of 50 000 people. This is partly due to a booming rental economy in the area, where a 3X3m room starts at R800 a month. Houses have at least three or four rental rooms in their yard space, and some landlords are building up and doing double storey shacks due to this booming business. The popularity of the area is due to Dunoon's proximity to Blouberg, the Cape Town CBD, the MyCiTi and taxi routes, and convenient shopping hub which includes Shoprite, Pick n Pay, banks and small businesses. It is close to the Killarney industrial area, and the race track and a swathe of new construction projects emerging in the nearby areas such as Rivergate. Not having a dedicated police station "is a recipe for disaster", said Makeleni. "I don't agree that people must take the law into their own hands. I think the government must do something." Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Andrè Traut confirmed the torching of two men. "The circumstances surrounding the death of two unknown male persons are being investigated after their burnt bodies were discovered in Siyahlala in Dunoon," said "Arrests are yet to be made." READ: Spate of vigilante killings in Dunoon   