A fine and warm day is expected for most of the country on Tuesday and warmer conditions are expected in the eastern parts of the country. Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over the central and the western interior of the Northern Cape and the central and eastern parts of the Western Cape, according to information provided by the South African Weather Service. Strong interior winds are expected over the southern Namakwa District of the Northern Cape and the Central Karoo of the Western Cape. Is will be hot along the southern coastline. It will be cooler along the southern parts of the Western Cape coast. The weather in your region It will be fine and cool to warm in Gauteng. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate. Mpumalanga is expected to be cloudy in the east in the morning with fog patches over the escarpment. Otherwise, it will be fine and warm. It will be cloudy in the east of Limpopo in the morning. Otherwise, it will be fine and warm. The North West is expected to be fine and warm. It will be fine and cool in the Free State, but warm in the west. The Northern Cape is expected to be cool with morning fog along the coast. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and warm, becoming fine over the interior in the evening. It will be hot in the north. The wind along the coast will be light and variable. It will be warm to hot over the eastern interior of the Western Cape. Otherwise, it will be cloudy to partly cloudy and cool, with morning fog and mist along the coastal regions. Morning drizzle and light rain in the evening can be expected in places over the southwest. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate. The Eastern Cape is expected to be fine and warm. It will become cloudy with isolated showers over the western and southern parts from late afternoon. The wind along the coast will be light. Morning fog is expected over the interior of KwaZulu-Natal. Otherwise, it will be fine and warm but cool over the south-western high grounds. The wind along the coast will be moderate. The expected UVB sunburn index will be high.   Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days