National police commissioner General Khehla Sitole welcomed disciplinary action taken against more than 40 police officers who took part in an illegal protest in Durban on Monday. According to national police spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo, the group allegedly marched through parts of the city to the SA Police Service (SAPS) provincial headquarters in the Servamus Building in Braam Fischer Street, Durban. "They demanded to speak to the acting provincial commissioner about a list of grievances. Discussions between the provincial police management went through the night until 02:00 this morning. However, they were informed that they were transgressing the law and that necessary disciplinary action will be instituted against them," Naidoo said in a statement on Tuesday. The members are likely to face charges in terms of the Gatherings Act, the Road Traffic Act, SA Police Service Disciplinary Regulations and municipal by-laws. About half of the group work at provincial units or stations and the other half are attached to national units. 11 officers have been fired "Following the discussions, three members have been summarily dismissed, 21 will face disciplinary action at provincial level and 20 will face disciplinary action at their respective units at national level. "The dismissal of the latest three members brings the total to 11 following the dismissal of eight members in March this year at Cambridge police station in the Eastern Cape for embarking on unprotected industrial action." The national commissioner welcomed the speedy response by the Acting Provincial Commissioner and his management team. "We will not tolerate our members holding both the SAPS as well as the people of South Africa at ransom through unprotected industrial actions", said General Sitole. "We have tried and tested channels within the SAPS for members to air their grievances and members are constantly encouraged to make use of these channels rather than resorting to illegal public protests." According to the statement, the national commissioner has instructed that up to 5 000 reservists be called up as a force multiplier to enhance security during the election period. In addition, 5 000 trainees that are currently at police academies will be placed on standby as a contingency, should the need arise to complement the dedicated team that has already been assigned to ensure a safe environment for free and fair elections, Naidoo said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 