DRAKENSERG Boys Choir School is excited to present its annual Music in the Mountains Festival from April 19 to April 21 at the school, Cathkin Park. The weekend promises to be a festive one, filled with music, delicious foods and drink, quality stalls, and so much more! The main events are Loki Rothman (Friday night performance), the Saturday Pop Gala (performed by the Johannesburg Youth Orchestra and the Drakensberg Boys Choir), and the Mozart Requiem (performed by the Drakensberg Boys Choir, St David’s Marist Inanda, Johannesburg Youth Orchestra, and the Drakensberg Boys Choir Old Boys). The Mozart Requiem performance on Sunday will be of a religious nature. Visiting school choirs are Whitestone (Bulawayo, Zimbabwe), Jacaranda Children’s Choir (Pretoria), Glenstantia Primary School (Pretoria) and St David’s Marist Inanda­ (Johannesburg). On the Fringe Stage will be popular Pretoria girl-band SAARKIE; and local band The Family Business (led by Dave Atkinson), among others. Born in Cape Town, Rothman burst onto the scene with his guitar act on the first season of SA’s Got Talent in 2009. Rothman joins us at Music in the Mountains to showcase his incredible guitar skills, steamy vocals and inviting stage presence. The Saturday evening main act for the gala performance “Philharmonic Pop” will feature the Joburg Youth Orchestra and the Drakensberg Boys Choir. In this collaboration of epic proportions, the Joburg Youth Orchestra and Drakensberg Boys Choir are pulling out all the stops to entertain and delight fans. The Joburg Youth Orchestra will be conducted by maestro Eddie Clayton, along with the artistic team behind the Drakensberg Boys Choir, Bernard Krüger and Tobias Stückelberger. SAARKIE is an energetic rock ‘n roll girl band from Pretoria. Their passion for music shows in their unique and different sound, in both English and Afrikaans. Their funky beats, solos, and stage presence entertain young and old audiences alike! The Family Business is made up of Dave Atkinson; Drakensberg Boys Choir School Executive Head Mr Greg Brooks; Drakensberg Boys Choir School Artistic Director Mr Bernard Kruger; and Drakensberg Boys Choir School Sound Engineer Mr Chad Zerf. Book your tickets online now at www.webtickets.co.za. — Supplied.