A 17-year-old Durban boy alleges he had to jump from a
moving vehicle on Tuesday afternoon (yesterday) when an Uber driver pointed a
gun at him. The boy’s mom, Julie*, told YOU she’d ordered an Uber
for her son, David*. “It’s just about 10 minutes’ drive from our home to
his friend’s house,” she says. “The trip started completely normally and David and
the driver chatted about music. “Out of the blue, the driver asked him, ‘What would
you do if I pointed a gun at you?’ David thought the man was joking and laughed.
David then answered, ‘I’ll slap you’.” The driver then got another call, she says, and, just
before arriving at David’s destination, pulled out a gun and pointed it at the
teen. “We don’t know what kind of weapon it was,” Julie
says. “But before the driver could say anything, David jumped out of the car. “The driver stopped and got out of the car in an
attempt to follow him but a private security vehicle drove past. The Uber
driver got back in his car and drove away.” David ran to his friend’s home. He and his mom later
laid charges at the Umbilo SAPS. An officer at the police station confirmed to YOU that
a case had been opened which will be investigated by the Berea SAPS. Julie says
David wasn’t robbed. “Both Uber and the police responded quickly. We called
the Uber emergency number and they were very sympathetic, promising to
investigate. I also got a call from Uber in Ireland promising an investigation
would follow,” Julie says. “I’m livid. Now my child can’t walk anywhere, cycle or
even use an Uber because it’s unsafe. He’s lost even more of his freedom
because now I have to drive him everywhere.” Incidents like this have no place in the company, Uber
SA says in a statement. “When something like this happens, we remove a
driver’s access to the app and we investigate the matter,” a spokesperson for
the company says. Uber doesn’t allow its drivers to carry weapons in the
vehicle while they’re on duty, the statement says. “The safety of our clients and driver partners are our
highest priority.” *Names changed