The Johannesburg Metro Police (JMPD) says it is not aware of a looming shutdown in Orange Grove but it will be ready if the action goes ahead. "JMPD has not received anything on that. If it happens, we will deploy officers accordingly," JMPD spokesperson Wayne Minnaar said. This comes as messages circulating on social media, threatening to put the suburb under lockdown as early as 03:00. The purpose of the protest is to appeal to Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba to allocate houses to the poor. The community is also calling on Mashaba to convert unused government buildings into RDP houses. READ: DA, ANC in blame-game as protest set to spread to Sandton Community Active Protection Security (CAP Security) issued a statement urging residents and businesses operating in the affected areas to prepare in case the protest goes ahead. The security company also urged residents to make alternative travel arrangements. "Although we are unable to confirm further details relevant to the protest march or the validity of this communication, we have outlined the following defensive behaviour suggestions for members of the community operating in the affected areas," it said in the advisory. "Do not leave any doors or windows open inside the perimeter and remove any obstacles outside your property that may be used to climb and trespass or to inflict malicious damage to other properties in the area," CAP Security said. People were also warned not to leave any doors or windows open. In a note to parents, King Edward VII Preparatory School warned parents and pupils to exercise caution in the morning, should the shutdown happen. "This note is not intended to create panic but rather to advise parents of the possibility of a disrupted morning," the school said in the letter. The school said it would monitor the situation and will be liaising with authorities for direction on Thursday morning. Last week, Alexandra residents took to the street, citing service delivery issues. They called on Mashaba to address them. Angry residents used rubble, burning tyres and rocks to block roads leading into the area as they led the Alex Shut Down demonstrations.