Correspondent The scene where a man resting under a tree was struck by a taxi.  (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 53-year-old man was injured in Onyx Drive, Carletonville, on Thursday afternoon when an out-of-control minibus taxi collided with the tree he was sitting under. ER24 paramedics arrived on the scene just after 15:00 on Thursday to find a pedestrian in need of medical attention. It appeared that the taxi had collided with the tree before hitting the man, who was treated on the scene before being taken to a private hospital for further care. READ: Woman killed, passengers injured as taxi swerves out of control at intersection in Rosebank, Joburg No one in the taxi sustained any injuries. The SAPS were on the scene for further investigation. Man sitting under a tree injured in a taxi crash in Carletonville https://t.co/R9hhRjr3nc #ArriveAlive @ER24EMS pic.twitter.com/rIrSff79H1  WATCH: Pedestrian mowed down by taxi driving in the wrong lane A taxi driving on the wrong side of the road knocked over a pedestrian in morning traffic in Sharonlea, Johannesburg on Monday. WATCH: Taxi collision leaves 1 dead in Ballito One person has been killed following a collision between a taxi and a light vehicle in Ballito on Saturday afternoon. Watch. WATCH: Minibus taxi smashes into Engen garage shop, injuring 2 A minibus taxi crashed into an Engen QuickShop on Saturday evening, after the driver allegedly lost control of the vehicle. He had been filling up his vehicle at the petrol station. WATCH: Taxi driver arrested after going viral for driving on the wrong side of the road A taxi driver has been arrested after going viral for driving on the wrong side of the road to avoid traffic in Bryanston. The driver was filmed by a biker who forced him to turn around. WATCH: Durban taxi driver crams 25 commuters into crowded taxi A taxi driver was fined R 5000 after he was found to have 25 passengers in his taxi in Durban last week.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.