Sharlene Rood WATCH: Congestion at toll gate as holidaygoers head home The holidays seem to be over for most, if the number of vehicles on the country's roads are anything to go by. The holidays seem to be over for most, if the number of vehicles on the country’s roads are anything to go by. (Dominique Heusdens) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories On Tuesday Western Cape Provincial Traffic gave us a demonstration on how their Mobile Testing Units work. These units are checking the road-worthiness of vehicles ahead of the festive season, and this battered minibus taxi failed the exam. Watch. WATCH The holidays seem to be over for most, if the number of vehicles on the country's roads are anything to go by. The Limpopo department of transport tweeted that 5 700 vehicles passed through the Kranskop tollgate, on the southbound lanes to Gauteng, between 09:00 and 13:00 on January 3. Dominique Heusdens also posted a video on Twitter showing a string of cars queuing at the N1 Verkeerdevlei tollgate, in the Free State. The video was taken at about 13:52 on Thursday afternoon and the cars in the snake were all driving northbound. Free State department of police, roads and transport spokesperson Hillary Mophethe told News24 on Thursday that during the day, roughly 1 100 vehicles per hour were passing through the toll gate. "Obviously there is an increase in traffic volume on our roads because people are driving back from their destinations," she said. She explained that usually three open gates (two manual and one automated) at Verkeerdevlei are sufficient, but five gates were open on Thursday due to the increased traffic volume. She asked motorists to be patient and to cooperate with authorities. "Most of our accidents during this festive season were as a result of human error." Mophethe urged drivers not to drive while under the influence of alcohol or to overtake on solid lines. Finally, she pleaded with them to have: "Patience, patience and more patience." WATCH: Overstrand fire rages on Air support has been brought in to battle a large fire in the Overstrand area in the Western Cape. The fire has devastated areas close to Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els. Revision, staying active, working hard: Cream of 2018 matric crop share their insights Some of the 2018 National Senior Certificate (NSC) top achievers say that they remain anxious on how well they have done ahead of the results being announced at Midnight on Thursday. Zuma on land: Less debate, more nationalisation Former President Jacob Zuma said there is too much debate about land expropriation without compensation to his liking, and suggested that land should be nationalised. WATCH: Used car dealership goes up in flames The New Year got off to a bad start for the owner of this used car dealership in Goodwood, Cape Town. 
Tony McGeer, owner of Mc Gee's Auto says he received a phone call in the early hours of January 2, alerting him to a fire at his dealership. WATCH: OR Tambo Airport security 'accept' cash bribe Security officials at  OR Tambo International Airport are alleged to have accepted a cash bribe from a passenger on Saturday. WATCH: Hijackers caught by Tracker officer on Christmas Day maybe connected to other crimes Police have arrested several suspects in connection to a botch hijacking that happened in Durban on Christmas Eve.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.