Canny Maphanga Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo. (Alon Skuy/Gallo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Thirty-eight years ago, Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo was awarded a bursary to study law but he was faced with taking care of his mother and siblings. He then decided to approach the owner of Kwa Moosa Wholesalers in the KwaZulu-Natal town of Ixopo, Mr Suleman Bux, and explained his situation to him and asked for assistance. "Without batting an eyelid, nor setting anything down on paper, Mr Bux gave him a voucher for his mother to collect groceries from his shop on a monthly basis for the three years during which he was going to be at university," South African Muslim Charitable Trust (SAMCT) social responsibility co-ordinator Rasheeda Motala said in a statement on Thursday. An emotional Zondo relayed this story during his interview for the post of Deputy Chief Justice of South Africa. WATCH:  When he wanted to repay the loan, Bux told him not to, and left him with a simple quote to live by: "Just do for others what I have done for you." Almost four decades later, Zondo and Bux are working together to help other needy, bright young stars through the creation of an educational trust. The Zondo and Bux Educational Trust was formed in October 2017, spontaneously during a dinner, where the idea of a fund was raised for historically disadvantaged kids who share a similar story to Zondo's. WATCH: Trevor Noah launches foundation to help SA youth "Over R250 000 was raised and led to the formation of The Zondo and Bux Educational Trust. Through this trust, Judge Zondo is able to do for others what Mr Bux had done for him," Motala added. While trustees are still in the process of identifying pupils who will benefit from this trust, they visited Amazabeko High School which was in need of a new hall. "The trustees of the [SAMCT] then approved just over R200 000 to complete the hall where the 2018 class of matric wrote their examinations," Motala said. The SAMCT also did the same for the Emazabekweni Primary School, which Zondo attended. ALSO READ: Cheryl Zondi launches foundation to help victims abused in 'sacred places' After his appointment, Zondo visited the school and discovered that it did not have proper toilets. As a result, the SAMCT approved a donation of R1m to establish a borehole and build toilets for pupils and staff. "Education is so important and via The Zondo and Bux Educational Trust, it is envisaged that a difference will be made in providing access to tertiary education to pupils from disadvantaged rural communities. "I am deeply grateful to all of them for their assistance to these two schools which serve the community of Emazabekweni in Ixopo, where I grew up," Judge Zondo said. An inaugural meeting of the Zondo trust was held on December 20, 2018 and trustees are currently in the process of identifying potential students to provide funding to.  WATCH: Cape pupil awarded for matriculating after surviving deadly fire Lance Minnies came close to losing his life in a deadly 2016 fire and almost gave up on his studies when he recovered. But it was the hope for a better future and the support of caring people at his school that pulled him through. WATCH: Dancing to a new tune at the Hillbrow music school The youth of the inner-city community of Hillbrow can find solace in music, thanks to Amisi "Coco" Mubale and the Hillbrow Music Centre. Watch. From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. WATCH: 127 inmates receive qualifications at inspirational graduation ceremony The Department of Correctional Services handed out 127 qualifications, including one master's degree, to graduating offenders on Friday. Watch the video above. WATCH: This father says outsourcing at Eskom is hurting his kids' future When Tshepang's* first child was born, he dropped out of school to seek work. He has worked as a contractor at various state entities. His current contract sees his salary filtered through two labour broking companies before it reaches him. WATCH: Little Maths genius scores prestigious scholarship In September, 2018, News24 interviewed 10-year-old math genius, Sbahle Zwane.
One month later, the Zwane family received news that Sbahle had been granted a scholarship at the prestigious Curro Academy in Protea Glen, Soweto. WATCH. WATCH: Limpopo matriculant comes out tops despite textbook, computer shortage Dimpho Phalane, a matriculant at Mampotjane Secondary School in Limpopo, could barely contain her excitement when she realised she was one of the country's top achievers. 'The bigger plan is to become president,' says top matric performer Tumelo Mashigo, part of the class of 2017, hopes to one day be president.

The 18-year-old was the second best performing learner with special needs among the most recent matriculants and hopes to make the world a better place one day.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.