Jan Gerber Former president Jacob Zuma in the dock at the Pietermaritzburg High Court. (PHOTO: Leon Lestrade) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former president Jacob Zuma will seek leave to appeal the Gauteng High Court in Pretoria's judgment which ordered him to pay back the money already incurred by his many court challenges. But the DA says it will ask the court that Zuma pay for this appeal himself. DA Federal Council chairperson James Selfe said in a statement that their lawyers had been informed of Zuma's intentions. "We will be launching an application in terms of Section 18 of the Superior Courts Act, read with Uniform Rule 49 (11), to have the High Court judgment take immediate effect to prevent any more taxpayer money being squandered on Zuma’s frivolous legal appeals," said Selfe. S.Africa: J. Zuma arrives at his hearing over corruption charges Former South African President Jacob Zuma arrives at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of fraud, racketeering and money laundering. 1ST "The DA is of the view that the High Court judgment must remain in effect, irrespective of any appeals Zuma might launch." Selfe said Zuma's application for leave to appeal was "clearly designed to delay and undermine the court’s judgment and to, once again, have the state pay for Zuma’s legal fees". 'Indictment on ANC government, Ramaphosa' "This should and must not be allowed. While Zuma is free to seek leave to appeal any court judgment, he cannot do so using public funds," he said. "Zuma must be stopped from evading accountability, especially since he is attempting to use state funds on endless appeals. "Jacob Zuma has been implicated in corruption and the looting of the state, and has essentially ransacked the public coffers to defend his role in the state capture project," Selfe said. He added that South Africans were still suffering the consequences of Zuma’s "disastrous" time in office and that he should not be entitled to any further financial support from the government or the people of South Africa. "It is also an indictment on the ANC government in general, on President Cyril Ramaphosa in particular, that there is no stronger stance against Zuma’s abuse of public money. It is clear that the ANC is expediently using Zuma for campaigning purposes and is, therefore, hamstrung in taking a principled stand on protecting the South African taxpayer from further looting." In December, Deputy Judge President Aubrey Ledwaba ruled that the decision of the Presidency and the state attorney, that the government would cover the legal costs Zuma incurred in his personal capacity, was invalid and he set it aside. READ: More woes for Jacob Zuma after court orders he is responsible for his legal fees Full account of all costs The state attorney was also directed to compile a full and complete account of all the legal costs that Zuma had incurred in his personal capacity during the criminal prosecution instituted against him and all related or ancillary litigation. This includes all the applications referred to in his matter, which the state paid for. In addition, the state attorney was told to take all necessary steps, including the institution of civil proceedings, to recover the amounts paid. The state attorney was ordered to file a report within three months, detailing the steps taken, and those that will be taken, to recover the money the state had paid. The DA launched its application in March, asking the court to set aside a 2006 agreement between Zuma and the Presidency, under then-president Thabo Mbeki. This was after Ramaphosa revealed that the agreement formed the basis of the decision to continue paying Zuma's legal fees in the so-called spy tapes case. Both the DA and EFF lodged applications in the High Court, asking it to set aside the decision of the state attorney.  WATCH: 'It's me, former president Jacob Zuma' - Zuma joins social media Former president Jacob Zuma says he has decided to "move with times" and join various social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. PARODY: Jacob Zuma sings Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word The closest SA may get to an apology from Jacob Zuma, is this parody of the president singing Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word. Journalists, supporters and family arrive for J. Zuma's hearing Journalists along with supporters and relatives of former South African President Jacob Zuma arrive at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of registry ... WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan continues testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day2 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan faced intimidation and victimisation for refusing to be party to state capture, the judicial inquiry into state capture headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo heard on Monday. WATCH: Nugent commission deviated from original mandate says Moyane's lawyer Former president Jacob Zuma has entered the fray over the firing of South African Revenue Service (SARS) commissioner Tom Moyane, saying Judge Robert Nugent was not asked to deal with the individual contracts of employees at SARS. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan continues testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day2 / Part1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan faced intimidation and victimisation for refusing to be party to state capture, the judicial inquiry into state capture headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo heard on Monday. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part 3) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part 2) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part1) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. Power outage risk rising - South African utility Eskom South Africa's power company Eskom says the risk of nationwide electricity outages has increased significantly due to a sharp fall in coal stockpiles. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma case postponed, Jacob Zuma, BLF show support Duduzane Zuma appeared briefly in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Friday. WATCH: 'Pay back the money' - MP's jeer at EFF's Floyd Shivambu in ironic turn of events EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu found himself on the receiving end of MP's jeering in Parliament on Tuesday, when he was heckled to "pay back the money" during a debate on the VBS Mutual Bank scandal. S Africa's Ramaphosa confirms resignation of finance minister Nene South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa has accepted the resignation of Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene, who has faced calls to resign after he admitted to visiting the Gupta brothers, friends of scandal-plagued former leader Jacob Zuma who have b... WATCH: Jacob Zuma arrives at court to support son Duduzane Former president Jacob Zuma arrived at the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday show support for his son Duduzane, who has been charged with two counts of culpable homicide. 'We don't want any corruption' South Africans share their feelings about Zuma's presidency and what they hope for the future. South Africa's Zuma says he will resign 'with immediate effect' South Africa's President Jacob Zuma has said he will resign "with immediate effect".

Mr Zuma made the announcement late on Wednesday in a televised address to the nation. S Africa 'captured by corrupt elements' South Africa's President Zuma feels "anxious" about his future, says ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. The Zuma presidency: Scandals and successes Jacob Zuma has faced some controversies during his time as ANC leader. 'I never thought we would choose corruption' Makhosi Khoza received death threats after branding President Jacob Zuma "a disgrace".   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.