Correspondent WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral. The school governing body (SGB) of Laerskool Schweizer-Reneke has put security measures in place to ensure the safety of its learners and teachers on Monday morning, Netwerk24 reported. SGB chairperson Jozeph du Plessis told the publication on Sunday that the school would be open on Monday. "We have put appropriate measures in place, but we won't divulge any details at this stage," Du Plessis reportedly said. This follows a racial row that rocked the sleepy North West town on Wednesday after a photo apparently depicting segregation in one of the school's Grade R classes went viral. In the picture, white and black learners are seated at separate tables. A group of protesters - mainly Economic Freedom Fighters members - converged on the school as North West Education MEC Sello Lehari conducted an inspection on Thursday, News24 reported. Teacher left town The teacher who is alleged to have separated the children has been suspended.It has been reported that the teacher has left the town. While the SGB said the school was technically open on Friday, many parents kept their children at home.The photo was posted on social media on Wednesday - the first day of the 2019 academic year - and soon became the centre of debate on racism and race relations, both in Schweizer-Reneke and SA at large.On Thursday, more photos emerged, seemingly from the same set, showing the pupils sitting together.Many parents have defended the teacher, saying she loved all of her pupils. 'Racism will never end' A teacher from another school in the town told News24 that racism would never end in the area. The South African Democratic Teachers' Union (Sadtu) in the province said it was disturbed and perplexed by allegations of racism in the school."It is our firm view that schools, through its education ethos, have the role to instil values of dignity, respect, equality and tolerance for our learners."The union cannot be silent when there is a gross violation of rights of learners to receive equal treatment and education. Acts or practice of racism have no place in our society and cannot be tolerated 24 years into our democracy," read the union's statement.The union called on the North West education department to extensively investigate these allegations and to extend the probe to other parts of the province. Task team appointed The South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) visited the school and met with Lehari and his team at the school on Thursday.SAHRC spokesperson Gail Smith said the commission would work closely with the department to investigate the allegations. "Concurrent to this investigation, the provincial department of education will establish a task team to deal with transformation at the school and has invited the commission to participate in the task team."The commission is deeply concerned that instances of discrimination and related intolerance continue to take place within the school system. Schools are platforms for teaching and learning - not only a formal curriculum - but also fundamental value systems. While this trend in schools remains highly concerning, we should take this as an opportunity to engage on transformation and foster greater awareness," said Smith.   Drake still texts his high school teacher Drake has revealed he still texts his high school teacher - despite dropping out of school to pursue his career - as she congratulated him for his recent chart success. School teacher launches appeal for surrogate after bowel cancer A primary school teacher whose womb was shrivelled by radiation, has taken the unusual step of launching an online appeal for a surrogate - after treatment for bowel cancer at 29 left her unable to carry a baby. At least two dead in school bus highway collision At least two people are dead and 43 others injured after a school bus collides with a dumptruck on a highway. South Korea - the price of success South Korea's education system is notorious for the pressure it places on school students. Often they have little time for hobbies or friends. One start-up wants to make learning more fun. Movie Report: Red Sparrow In the mystery thriller 'Red Sparrow', we follow Jennifer Lawrence as a Russian ballerina who gets recruited into 'Sparrow School'. This isn't your typical 'nose in the books' education though. Instead, the girls learn to use their bodies as weapons. Marseille high school students clash with police Thousands of high school students take to the streets in Marseille, as more and more join students protest against education reforms affecting university admission. French police arrest hundreds of students across the country French students have been blocking access to high schools across France in protest of President Emmanuel Macron's education reforms. #France #Franceprotests #giletsjaunes #Macron Online learning at your own pace in Brazil In Brazil, schooling is compulsory for children between the ages of 7 and 14, but there is little state monitoring. John Boyega teaches kids Jedi training John Boyega has been teaching children how to train like a Jedi alongside Olympian Jade Jones, as part of a new scheme by Change4Life. Texas student: 'I ran as fast as I could' Two Santa Fe High School students describe the immediate aftermath of the mass shooting on their campus. WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. High school and university students protest in Paris Several hundred high school students are joined by university students at the Place Saint Michel in Paris to protest education reforms, including changes to crucial end-of-high school exams and access to higher education. SA's top matriculant missed half the school year due to a rare disease After missing almost six months of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker managed to nab the coveted spot of SA's best matriculant. Meet the girl whose teacher is a radio Could broadcasting school lessons solve Africa's education crisis? The BBC spoke to a pupil in the Democratic Republic of Congo who is learning through the radio. Why is Turkey becoming a hub for higher education? Turkey is becoming a hub for higher education for students from across the world. But what is driving the change? #Higher #Education #Turkey Turkey's Maarif Foundation hosts first graduation ceremony in Afghanistan In Afganistan, where 3.5 million children are out of school, these high school students from an Afghan-Turkish school are celebrating their graduation. Parallel worlds in education Bjork and Tom both attend schools in Germany. The system is supposed to be egalitarian. But she has access to the latest technology at her private school, while at his public school not even the fire safety equipment works properly. British woman makes final ten for million-dollar global teacher prize A British woman is among 10 teachers in the running for a million-dollar teaching prize.

Andria Zafirakou, from Alperton Community School in Brent, north west London, has made it onto the shortlist for the Varkey Foundation Global Teacher Prize. Trivia: 'Boyhood' For this week's trivial item, we'll be looking at perhaps one of the most unique "coming-of-age" films ever made, the 2014 masterpiece 'Boyhood'. The movie is a time-lapse study of the life of a boy named Mason, played by Ellar Coltrane. Biologists Believe Trees Can Speak. And It's a Language We Can Learn Can trees talk to one another? Researchers believe it makes a lot of sense; now it's teaching humans their language that's the issue. U by APoll01 | Disrupt Berlin 2018 APoll01 has developed an affordable open platform designed to surface the needs of educational institutions, students and faculty for the purpose of establishing educational standards. 'Refugees are welcome here' - Brooklyn restaurant Emma's Torch Emma's Torch is an eight-week training course that teaches refugees the basics of cooking and serves up dishes made by its students. Emma's Torch serves up food made by refugees "Refugees are welcome here," says Brooklyn restaurant Emma's Torch, which also holds an eight-week training course that teaches refugees and human trafficking survivors the basics of cooking and serves up dishes made by its students. 'Greatest nightmare - our children attacked' Police in Maryland say their worst nightmare happened after two students were shot inside a school. Teacher strike delayed in Los Angeles The teacher union representing 35,000 Los Angeles members is postponing the start of a strike till next Monday. They had planned to strike Thursday, but the possibility of a court-ordered delay of the strike prompted the union move. Parents sue over district’s policy to arm teachers Parents filed a lawsuit to block a Pennsylvania school district from allowing teachers to carry guns in school, the latest in a debate playing out in many states over whether it's wise to arm educators to protect students from mass shooters. David Oakes: Schools should teach lesser known Shakespeare plays Victoria star David Oakes has said he would like to see the lesser known Shakespeare plays taught in schools.

The actor, best known for playing Prince Ernest in the ITV period drama, said an attempt should be made to broaden people's horizons, ra... Pakistan's solar-powered schools for the underprivileged A 'SLUM' school run by Rohayl Varind is Pakistan's first solar night school. Why Kenyan school children say 'no', loudly School girls and boys in Kenyan schools are being taught self defence and how to report sexual and physical attacks. Powerlifting school teacher finds success at 50 Lucille Rowan is a weightlifter who won Commonwealth silver at powerlifting a year after first picking up a weight aged almost 50. The anger propelling teachers into politics Over the past few months, massive teacher protests have shut down schools across the country. Now, the fight for education funding is prompting some to run for office. Broncos president: Finding 'new normal' critical for Humboldt Students returned to school in Humboldt, Saskatchewan, on Tuesday following Friday's bus crash that killed 15 people. The director of education for Greater Saskatoon Catholic Schools says the students were "happy to be together." WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. Alec Baldwin teaches 'Trump School' Comedian Alec Baldwin headlined a state Democratic party banquet teaching school lessons about Donald Trump. Ed Sheeran slams music funding cuts Ed Sheeran has slammed cuts to music education and revealed he was "benefited hugely" from the music education provided at his state school. Arizona educator becomes state teacher boss Spurred on by teacher protests, scores of teachers ran for office this fall, with many of them winning. They include Kathy Hoffman, who was sworn in Monday as Arizona's new Superintendent of Public Instruction. Raqqa's schools resemble battlegrounds More than a year since the United States and its allies defeated Islamic State in the Syrian city of Raqqa, many of its schools still resemble battlegrounds that are unfit for purpose. Silicon Valley - Can Games Create an Education Fit for the Future? Imagine a school where playing video games is encouraged during classes and may even replace exams. A new educational programme uses SimCity to test children on vital problem-solving skills. In Pakistan public education suffocates under surging population At the Tanjai Cheena school in northwest Pakistan students squeeze into makeshift classrooms where plastic tarps serve as walls and electricity is sparse, as a surging population overstretches the country's fragile education system. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. Is this the most patriotic Canadian? High school teacher Dave Suchanek is so patriotic about Canada, he's created an alter ego: Flagman. Meet the teacher who wears school uniform Alex Maina Kariuki is a school principal with a difference. He insists on wearing the same school uniform as his students. Arizona teachers go on strike Arizona is the latest state where teachers are walking off the job to demand better pay and more school funding. Dresden teacher wary of far-right AfD online platform A Dresden teacher recalls what life was like under communism. That's why the far-right AfD party's new online platform reminds her of the days when students could denounce teachers. Cardi B visits former elementary school Cardi B just shocked and surprised teachers and students at her old elementary school when she paid them a visit! US schools walk out over gun violence Students were demanding gun legislation that promotes school safety, 19 years since the Columbine massacre. French teachers protest against Macron reform plan Nearly one in two high school teachers, and one in four primary school teachers, go on strike against President Macron's plans to reform France's education sector and cut jobs - the first time all teaching unions have agreed to strike together sin... Zoe Kravitz felt 'like a freak' at school Zoe Kravitz "felt like a freak" at school because of the colour of her skin, as she went to a private school with predominantly white students.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.