Kamva Somdyala Department of Home Affairs (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Public Servants Association of South Africa (PSA) has slammed the call by Parliament's Portfolio Committee on Home Affairs to ban the use of cellphones by officials at their front desks as "misplaced and ill-informed". Portfolio committee chairperson Hlomani Chauke on Monday urged the department to consider the ban during working hours, following an "excessive amount of complaints". Chauke said it was "unacceptable" that home affairs officials were on their phones while the public spent "excessive amounts of time" at their offices. READ: Ban home affairs officials from using cellphones at front desks – MPs "One of the keys to resolving the long queues at home affairs offices is by ensuring that officials are at their desks offering the services they are employed to do," he said. The PSA hit back on Tuesday, saying the portfolio committee's suggestion was "misplaced" and "ill-informed". "The PSA therefore wants to sensitise the portfolio committee on its roles and responsibilities and advises it to rather focus on these, instead of interfering with government employees’ terms and conditions of employment," said PSA general manager Ivan Fredericks. "The Department of Home Affairs has a policy that regulates the use of cellphones by employees. This was consulted amongst parties at the bargaining chamber. The department was part of this process that resulted in the policy being adopted." 'Reckless' Chauke had also called for a nationwide implementation of a draft framework that would give guidelines on the use of cellphones at front desks. Fredericks clarified their position on that matter. "These matters are negotiated at the relevant bargaining structures and the committee does not have any power to change these, unless negotiated and agreed upon at [a] sectoral level." Fredericks called on the portfolio committee to refrain from making "reckless" statements. "Such utterances expose public servants to undue public abuse and even physical attacks at the workplace, when effective measures are already in place to address such conduct where warranted," he claimed. In March last year, a video went viral of a home affairs official using social media while stamping documents. WATCH: Home affairs official busy on social media while stamping passports In the video, the official – who is wearing a black home affairs T-shirt – can be seen distractedly checking a passport while focusing on her phone where a Facebook feed is open. Then-minister Malusi Gigaba tweeted that he had been informed of the incident and was investigating.  WATCH: Congestion at toll gate as holidaygoers head home The holidays seem to be over for most, if the number of vehicles on the country's roads are anything to go by. WATCH: OR Tambo baggage handler caught slinging suitcases, suspended The OR Tambo International Airport baggage handler who was caught on camera carelessly flinging suitcases from the carousel onto the floor has been suspended. WATCH: R 58K donation helps 69-year-old granny build her dream home A 69-year-old grandmother from Willowfountain in Pietermaritzburg will see her longstanding dream of rebuilding her home come true, after her employers crowdsourced almost R60 000 towards renovations. Trained officials key to implementing changed rules for child travellers, says SA tourism minister "This does not mean returning on the first flight home...the traveller will be given adequate opportunity to obtain the documentation without just being shipped out." GIGABYE: Times Malusi Gigaba showed how seriously he takes Parliament This week Malusi Gigaba resigned as minister of home affairs, tendering his resignation as MP shortly thereafter. WATCH: Gigaba apologises for pinky finger gesture Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba has apologised unreservedly for making a gesture with his pinky finger at an EFF MP during Parliament's volatile sitting on Tuesday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.