Correspondent WATCH: Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson emerges as 'kingpin of bribes' Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson has emerged as the absolute kingpin in the Bosasa empire of bribes, intimidation and cold hard cash. Hogan Lovells South Africa said it was appalled and shocked by allegations made by former Bosasa executive Angelo Agrizzi at the Zondo commission of inquiry on Thursday which linked one of the firm's former partners to Bosasa's corrupt payments to government officials. Agrizzi implicated Brian Biebuyck, a former lawyer at Hogan Lovells who left the firm at the end of March 2017, in his testimony before the commission. Biebuyck was implicated through a video showing Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson, former Bosasa chief financial officer Andries van Tonder, and Bosasa's head of security, director and chairperson Joe Gumede. Van Tonder and Watson appear to be counting stacks of cash. WATCH: Former Bossasa COO unpacks the bribes Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi on Thursday detailed the money trail allegedly used for bribing state entities. At one point, Watson tells Van Tonder: "Okay. What's going to happen here, Brian Biebuyck and Angelo will handle Patrick independently, okay?" "We are deeply disturbed by what was claimed yesterday before the commission. We strongly condemn all forms of bribery and corruption and our first priority is to understand for ourselves the events which are alleged by Agrizzi to have taken place. We will take the appropriate actions and will report any criminal conduct to the relevant authorities," said Nkonzo Hlatshwayo, chairperson of Hogan Lovells South Africa. "We are committed to upholding the highest standards expected in our profession and will take whatever action is required to ensure that we adhere to those standards," said Hlatshwayo. Bosasa's origins can be traced back to 1999, when it was called Dyambu Holdings. At the time, shareholders of Dyambu allegedly included ministers Lindiwe Sisulu, Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula and Nomvula Mokonyane, National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete and former deputy director general in the National Intelligence Agency Girlie Pikoli, News24 reported. On Thursday, however, Sisulu's spokesperson denied that she was ever part of the company and called on Agrizzi to retract his statements and issue a public apology to her, EWN reported. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Former Bossasa COO unpacks the bribes Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi on Thursday detailed the money trail allegedly used for bribing state entities. WATCH | 'Every single contract was tainted with bribes' - Agrizzi testifies #StateCaptureInquiry The second day of testimony by former Bosasa top boss Angelo Agrizzi in the commission of inquiry into state capture continues. ANALYSIS | #StateCaptureInquiry: Unpacking Agrizzi's testimony Watch as News24 investigative journalist Kyle Cowen and journalist Jeanette Chabalala unpack former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi's revelations at the state capture commission. WATCH: Bosasa spent between 'R4m and R6m a month' in cash bribes - Agrizzi at #StateCaptureInquiry Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi continues to testify at state capture inquiry - Day 2 The second day of testimony by former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi at the commission of inquiry into state capture is set to be far more explosive and damning for the ruling ANC party and his former colleagues. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi testifies at state capture inquiry The Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture resumed on Wednesday with former Bosasa employee Angelo Agrizzi on the witness stand. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.