Sesona Ngqakamba DA leader Mmusi Maimane. (Jan Gerber/News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The DA says promises made by President Cyril Ramaphosa during his address at the party's election manifesto launch showed no sense of urgency. "All of his solutions are long term and slow when South Africa needs urgent change now," DA leader Mmusi Maimane said in a statement shortly after Ramaphosa’s address. Ramaphosa delivered the party's annual January 8 statement to a thousands of ANC supporters who gathered at the Moses Mabhida stadium in Durban on Saturday. Maimane said Ramaphosa’s delivery was “full of more empty promises”, adding that he offered no leadership on how the country could come together and build “One South Africa for All”. ANC launches election manifesto South Africa's ruling ANC party launches its election campaign on Saturday ahead of polls in May that it is tipped to win despite recently falling support, internal divisions and a sluggish economy. On Friday, party members including President Cyr... "Today’s ANC Manifesto Launch confirmed three things of vital importance to the people of South Africa: The ANC has not changed, Cyril Ramaphosa cannot deliver the immediate change our country needs, and his promises are empty," Maimane said. He added that most of what the Ramaphosa promised had already been promised by previous presidents but was not delivered. "Nothing shows this more than his empty, pointless words on job creation. Ramaphosa promises 275 000 new jobs a year, but in his first year in the Presidency, South Africa lost 278 000 jobs," Maimane said. He said even though the target of 275000 jobs would be reached, it would take 35 years to defeat unemployment. "It will also take 35 years to deal with all outstanding land claims at the current wait, despite many promises to speed it up. Land reform claimants do not have 35 years to wait," said Maimane. "At a time of acute racial division in our country, the President offered no leadership on how we can come together as a country and build #OneSAforAll. The DA is the only party pursuing the vision of shared prosperity." - @MmusiMaimanehttps://t.co/m6OzgJ2JBw  Maimane added that Ramaphosa had made no mention of how the party would deal with the fighting the access to job opportunities unfairly by those who were "connected". "On education, the President spoke of teaching young children coding and the “internet of things”, while 78% of 10-year-olds cannot read for meaning, and children are dying in school pit latrines. The President is totally out of touch with the real problems our country faces." "What is clear is that President Ramaphosa is Mr Delay rather than Mr Deliver, as he hides his inability to take action on any issue behind endless talk shops and summits. He is simply not able to make a clean break from the corrupt ANC that brought our country to the brink of a failed state. But more crucially, he cannot introduce the bold reform our economy needs to create jobs and access to opportunity" said Maimane. During his address, Ramaphosa amongst other issues, acknowledged that state capture and corruption have "weakened" some public institutions, "undermined effective governance and contributed to the poor performance of our country" However, Maimane said Ramaphosa had no plan on how to tackle corruption urgently. #ANCManifesto crowds going crazy as hit song “deeper” comes on (@tshidi_lee) pic.twitter.com/KUaWgyFufP  #ANCManifesto Ramaphosa: The ANC government will employ more police personnel and increase the training given to the police and others in the criminal justice system (@tshidi_lee) #ANCManifesto Ramaphosa says the ANC 2019 manifesto is about transforming the economy for it to serve all people, advancing social transformation, increasing the fight against corruption, building a better nation, Africa and globe (@tshidi_lee)   SAfrica's Ramaphosa gives speech at ANC manifesto launch 1ST IMAGES of South Africa's Cyril Ramaphosa's speech at the launch of his party's 2019 election manifesto. The African National Congress (ANC), which has ruled since the end of apartheid 25 years ago, is tipped to win the election in May despite ... WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.