Pelane Phakgadi WATCH: OR Tambo Airport security 'accept' cash bribe Security officials at  OR Tambo International Airport are alleged to have accepted a cash bribe from a passenger on Saturday. The two security officers seen on viral video soliciting an alleged bribe at an OR Tambo International Airport terminal have been suspended. The security company, Securitas, said that "being advised of the incident, the company immediately suspended the security officers". In a statement, the company assured that the pair will be subjected to a disciplinary inquiry on Thursday. READ: Footage shows OR Tambo Airport security 'accepting' cash bribe The security officers perform preliminary documentation screening at the airport in order to facilitate the passport control process for the airlines. The women are seen in a video inspecting passports, when one of them appears to take cash placed inside one of the passports. The OR Tambo Police Department, told News24 on Monday that they could not comment on the incident until a police investigation has been done.  Good day, thank you for bringing this to our attention, we have escalated the investigation of the two security officers to their employer, Securitas Security Services. This is a company one of the 9 security companies contracted to airlines to conduct document verification.  Kalepso at Startup Battlefield Finals | Disrupt Berlin 2018 Kalepso is a cybersecurity startup that offers users a previously unattainable combination of post-quantum security with full database processing. Trump: China and Russia challenge US 'We are engaged in a new era of global competition,' says the president in a national security speech. Kalepso | Disrupt Berlin 2018 Kalepso is a cybersecurity startup that offers users a previously unattainable combination of post-quantum security with full database processing. Everybody Spies or Nobody Does With fears increasing over snooping states and phone hacking, how do we balance privacy and security? Security technologist Bruce Schneier says we must face up to a stark choice. Police want public to act as "counter-terrorism citizens" Police want members of the public to act as "counter-terrorism citizens" to help them stop deadly attack plots.
Security chiefs say information from the community is crucial to confronting the unprecedented threat. Police share top tips for safely overtaking cyclists Hampshire and Thames Valley police forces have been working together to show motorists the safe way to overtake cyclists. Drastic new security measures in US schools Many schools are introducing new tactics to try to prevent shootings - but do they have any chance of keeping pupils safe? Security ROBOT tested in Tokyo train station ahead of 2020 Olympics Security guards may soon become a relic of the past with new 'security robots' being trialled in Tokyo which can detect and report dangerous situations. The robot can travel autonomously and is armed with a camera, which transmits images back to a... Can We Trust Autonomous Vehicles to Keep us Safe? with Eran Shir (Nexar), Danny Atsmon (Cognata), Hi Can We Trust Autonomous Vehicles to Keep us Safe? with Eran Shir (Nexar), Danny Atsmon (Cognata), Hilla Tavor (Mobileye). Stock specific action on the cards Arun Kumar of Reliance Securities gives important cues about the stock markets. Javid calls Corbyn 'threat to our national security' Sajid Javid calls Jeremy Corbyn a "threat" to the UK's national security. How security is being stepped up Soldiers are backing up police following Monday's bomb attack at the Manchester Arena. WATCH: Woman abducted in Durban Morningside hijacking, found safe Following a frantic search, authorities have found a Durban woman who was hijacked and abducted in Morningside on Friday morning. WATCH: Pravin will destroy Eskom and SAA in order to privatise them - EFF The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) staged a picket outside the State Capture Inquiry on Monday calling for the removal of Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Public Enterprises. Trump praises 'successful' Syria strike President Trump praised new national security adviser John Bolton for the military strike on Syria. 'Unauthorized takeover' of Nigeria parliament It's not clear why forces from Nigeria's state security agency temporarily blockaded the country's parliament on Tuesday. The agency's head has been fired and the president's office is calling it an "unauthorized takeover." Alexis Akwagyiram and M... Suspect detained after NSA shooting Authorities have a suspect in custody after a shooting at the National Security Agency in Maryland, US. Local media are reporting that three people were wounded at the entrance of the NSA campus. In reversal, Trump to save Chinese telecom jobs U.S. President Donald Trump said in a tweet on Sunday that he has asked the Commerce Department to help Chinese technology company ZTE Corp 'get back into business, fast,' a concession to Beijing ahead of high-stakes trade talks that will take pla... Melbourne attacker inspired by IS: police A man who set fire to a gas-laden truck in the center of Melbourne and fatally stabbed one person before he was shot by police was inspired by Islamic State but did not have direct links with the group, Australian police said on Saturday. Pep Guardiola on Liverpool fans throwing bottles Pep Guardiola talks about the security situation which saw Liverpool fans throw bottles at the Manchester City bus outside Anfield. WATCH: CCTV footage shows kidnapping of Hannah Cornelius and friend A clip, captured by Battery Centre's security cameras, shows a group of men approaching Hannah Cornelius' car, which was parked behind a white bakkie, before driving off. Get answers to all your stock market queries Saurabh Jain, Assistant Vice President at SMC Global Securities and Hemen Kapadia, Research, KRChoksey SSPL aid you with stock markets. Transurban successfully completes entitlement offer 21 Sep 2018 - Transurban (ASX:TCL) has announced the completion of the retail component of its fully underwritten pro-rata accelerated renounceable 10 for 57 entitlement offer. Kanye West donates $150,000 to family of Chicago security guard American rap star Kanye West has donated as much as $150,000 to a memorial fundraising site for a security guard who was killed by a police officer. Online campaign for security guard killed by US police officer An online fundraiser has raised over $130,000 for Jemel Roberson, the black security guard who was shot dead by a US police officer. Roberson held down a gunman and waited for police to arrive.

Police shot Roberson upon arrival at the scene. He l... WATCH: Protesters reclaim Clifton beach Lobby group Black People's National Crisis Committee arranged a protest at Clifton Fourth Beach on Friday evening following reports that private security company ecurity company PPA Security allegedly closed down the beach at sunset last Sunday. Samara prepares to host England and Sweden's World Cup quarter-final Blocked streets, security guards and police checkpoints scattered the Samara city centre on Saturday morning, ahead of the Sweden-England World Cup quarter-final match there. WATCH: Father of boxing champion killed in heated argument in Gauteng A video which has been circulating on social media shows a 61-year-old man and a security guard in a heated altercation, WATCH: Suspected Pretoria burglar caught breaking into school A 30-year-old suspect was arrested while breaking into a Pretoria Primary School on Wednesday morning. Apple says no signs of hacking attack Apple told Congress that it had found no evidence that China hacked into its supply chain. Contest terror strategy: Sajid Javid outlines six key steps Sajid Javid announces the new "Contest" strategy document at the Southbank Centre in London. 

MI5 intelligence will be shared with bodies outside the security community in a drive to stop terror suspects before attack plots can crystallise. Security guard killed by police, mother sues The mother of Jemel Roberson, an armed security guard who was shot and killed by a police officer while working at a Chicago bar, has filed a federal lawsuit alleging excessive force. WATCH: New footage has emerged following clash by 2 rival church groups in Joburg New video footage has emerged of the widely reported clash outside the International Pentecost Holiness Church in Zuurbekom, west of Johannesburg last Thursday. Family ID's body in Costa Rica as missing U.S. woman The family of Carla Stefaniak, a U.S. tourist from Florida who went missing while vacationing in Costa Rica, says a body found there this week has been identified as hers. WATCH: Eyewitness films dramatic scenes after M1 Joburg shooting Two people are recovering in hospital after a shooting on the Jan Smuts offramp of the M1 north highway in Johannesburg. Gunman kills three at Strasbourg Christmas market A manhunt is underway in France after a gunman killed at least three people and injured a dozen others at a Christmas market in Strasbourg. US authorities continue to have strong presence at the border US border police and other agents continue to mass and patrol the US-Mexico border, which has seen about 5,900 active-duty troops sent there in the name of national security, as thousands of migrants have arrived in the Mexican border town of Tiju... Van attack doesn't seem to be linked to national security: Goodale Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale says the deadly van attack in north Toronto on Monday doesn't appear to be connected to national security. At least 10 people were killed in the incident and 15 others were injured. Goodale asked why Toronto van attack not dubbed terrorism Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale says it's up to investigating agencies to characterize Monday's deadly van attack in Toronto, but he reiterated Tuesday that there is currently no "known national security connection.". Georgia jury awards $1 billion to rape victim In an unusual verdict, a jury in Georgia has a awarded $1 billion verdict against a security company after their employee, an apartment complex guard, was convicted of raping a 14-year-old girl. 148,000 police on duty in France as 'yellow vests' call protests French Interior Minister Christophe Castaner announces that 148,000 members of the security forces will be mobilised for New Year's Eve in France. French police and 'yellow vest' protesters clash in Bordeaux Police forces and 'yellow vests' clash in Bordeaux after protesters set up a barricade using plastic barriers and security fences, on a seventh Saturday of anti-government demos that have rocked France and triggered the worst crisis of Macron's pr... The thief thwarted by automatic doors Automatic doors turn security guard when a man robs an Australian service station. Facebook confirms data sharing with Chinese firms Facebook says it has data sharing partnerships with at least four Chinese companies, including Huawei, which has come under scrutiny from U.S. intelligence on concerns of national security. Currency has moved from 63/$ To 73/$ IL&FS moved from AAA rating to D in the shortest possible time,10 year government securities have moved from 7.5% To 8.1%. Stina Ehrensvard of Yubico on security with multi-purpose chips Stina Ehrensvard of Yubico on security and trust with multi-purpose chips: "The bigger the system, the bigger the risk of attack." #TCDisrupt G-Eazy reportedly arrested in Sweden Rap star G-Eazy has reportedly been arrested in Sweden after he was seen partying with friends and attacked a number of security guards. Claims suggest one man was hit in the face a number of times. Police officials arrived at the scene, taking th... Ralph Goodale outlines goals of new cybersecurity strategy The federal government has announced the establishment of a new Canadian Centre for Cyber Security. Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale says the centre will provide expert support to governments, businesses and individuals. Alex Stamos on security breaches at Yahoo and Facebook Alex Stamos says being a CSO today is like being a accountant before the calculator was invented #TCDisrupt   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.