Jenni Evans WATCH: Betty's Bay fire victim shares heartbreaking experience of the blaze A Betty's Bay resident has spoken out about the trauma of losing her home in a fire that raged through the town at the weekend. The aftermath on the Camphill farm community estate. (Jenni Evans, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories "Camphill, you've got 30 minutes until that fire is on you." These were the chilling words that came over the rural safety watch group last Friday afternoon as a massive fire roared towards Camphill Farm Community outside Hermanus. "That morning, while I was on the phone, I thought I smelt something burning," said Sam Hodson, executive manager of the property that houses 54 intellectually disabled adults and 31 staffers. Not long after receiving the message, Dodson saw flames at the top of the hill in the picturesque Hemel-en-Aarde Valley. WATCH:  Fire rages out of control near Hermanus Firefighters from the Overstrand Municipality have spent the last 24 hours fighting an out of control fire about 10km from Hermanus in the Western Cape. With the wind pushing hard, within 10 minutes, the flames were halfway down the hill heading for them and after another 10 minutes, they were at the farm's fence.     "All I can say is, 'thank God for fire drills'. We roll our eyes and go bleh whenever we have to do them, but thank God for fire drills." With the fire siren howling, the residents and staff met at the main hall as planned. Fortunately, the bus drivers at the day school had not left for home yet. With the clothes on their backs and a quick grab of the medications needed for some of the residents, the bus drivers sped people off the farm as the flame chased them. Hodson had 11 people and a dog squeezed into his car and as he headed for the main road, he saw a wall of flames and realised it was too late to take that route.  Aftermath: Camphill farm community estate. (Jenni Evans, News24) Turning away from the flames, he headed down a gravel road towards a little-used entrance to a neighbour's farm. Desperate to get everybody to safety, he decided to ram through the farm gates and get out of there as quickly as possible. "It's not like the movies," he said. "The gates stayed closed.” Their neighbour rushed down with bolt cutters to open the gate for them. By then, the road back to Hermanus was blocked by fire and smoke, and the fire had also spread over the Onrus River that runs through Camphill's property.     This meant they had to take a long way around to get to Sandbaai Hall in Hermanus where they took shelter. "The fire was so hungry," said Mady Pretorius, a house mother standing in the main hall that smelt of Jik and soot amid the cleaning of the debris. "The building is designed to withstand fire but the soot was this thick," she said, showing three centimetres with her fingers. Her husband Giel, the facilities manager, stayed behind with five others. They ran around the farm hosing the fire so that it would not get to the houses and moved the cattle away from immediate danger. Their barn, which had R15 000 worth of animal feed stored inside, went up in flames. Half of the barn's roof was missing, burnt out or blown away in the strong wind. "I was standing right here," said Giel, pointing to an ashen field strewn with large charred logs.  Camphill's partially damaged barn. (Jenni Evans, News24) "A log just flew out of the sky and landed right near me. It was like a fire tornado. The fire would be here and we would look to the other side and it had somehow jumped onto a tree that side. It was just one big rolling flame. "I still can't believe that nobody got hurt. Just three chickens got their feet a little bit sore." The Camphill Farm Community keeps its residents busy with meaningful work at the self-sustaining farm. They run a dairy, keep poultry, run a workshop and tend a large herb farm. They lost their entire herb farm and also 27 out of the 30 beehives they had built up for their honey supplies. Hodson said some of the residents were severely traumatised. Counselling is expected to start on Wednesday. 'What now?' On Saturday morning after the fire, they had a "what now?" meeting, and work has started on cleaning up, assessing the damage and getting the utilities back up again. "Pipes just melted," he said. "But, there was a miracle. None of the houses burnt down. If we had lost just one house, nine people would have had nowhere to stay." He is still amazed that the houses and most of the buildings survived. He said the generosity and kindness of Hermanus neighbours and residents has been incredible. Residents in Hermanus brought food, bedding, and even toothbrushes for them at Sandbaai Hall. "It was remarkable to see. They just dropped things off with no fanfare."  Firefighters putting out stubborn hotspots in Hermanus. (Jenni Evans, News24) On Tuesday, roads in the area were filled with trucks from the Overstrand Municipality, the Cape Winelands District Municipality and Working on Fire officials. Crews were hosing down places where there were stubborn puffs of smoke. At the Hermanus fire station, chief fire and disaster manager Lester Smith said most of the fire was out and just a few patches were still being taken care of. He showed off piles of fruit, sandwiches, water, energy drinks, food, clothes and bottled water that residents had donated for the crew at their headquarters in Mount Pleasant. Further donations can be dropped off at the fire station, and anybody who wishes to assist with cleaning up or counselling at Camphill can contact them at www.farm.camphill-hermanus.org.za. Residents have been taken in by other residents, at a local lodge, or are staying with families while they hope for a return on Monday. Donations for fire victims at Hermanus fire station. (Jenni Evans, News24) KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Betty's Bay fire victim shares heartbreaking experience of the blaze A Betty's Bay resident has spoken out about the trauma of losing her home in a fire that raged through the town at the weekend. WATCH: Overstrand fire rages on Air support has been brought in to battle a large fire in the Overstrand area in the Western Cape. The fire has devastated areas close to Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els. WATCH: Fire rages through Paarl mountains Firefighters are battling a fire raging through the mountains in Paarl, Western Cape. WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. WATCH: Western Cape firefighters end gruelling day with uplifting song A group of firefighters returned to their base at the Crassula hall in Betty's Bay on Friday, with song and dance. WATCH: Cape pupil awarded for matriculating after surviving deadly fire Lance Minnies came close to losing his life in a deadly 2016 fire and almost gave up on his studies when he recovered. But it was the hope for a better future and the support of caring people at his school that pulled him through. WATCH: Firefighter fight blaze to save hectares of Paarl fynbos destroyed in fire At least 500ha of 15-year-old fynbos was lost in the fire that swept through part of Paarl mountain, the Drakenstein municipality said as they scaled down on operations on Friday. Man charged in deadly game room fire in Poland The man who designed the escape room in Poland where five teenage girls died in a fire on Friday has been charged with intentionally creating the fire hazard which led to the blaze. Fire destroys historic upstate New York church Aerial video shows fire destroying a 19th century church in upstate New York on Wednesday. WATCH: Used car dealership goes up in flames The New Year got off to a bad start for the owner of this used car dealership in Goodwood, Cape Town. 
Tony McGeer, owner of Mc Gee's Auto says he received a phone call in the early hours of January 2, alerting him to a fire at his dealership. WATCH: Train up in flames in Mayfair Two carriages of a passenger train caught fire at Mayfair Station, west of Johannesburg on Sunday. New York substation fire lights up the night sky A transformer explosion at an electric power station in the New York City borough of Queens has led police officials to warn people to avoid the area, after social media users posted images of a bright light on the horizon. Scenes of devastation in Brazil after fire burns down 600 homes Scenes of devastation in Manaus after a huge fire destroyed 600 wooden homes built on stilts next to a river in Brazil's Amazon region, decimating a poor area of the city but causing no deaths. WATCH: St Francis Bay residents evacuated over runaway fire The Kouga Municipality in the Eastern Cape has ordered residents of St Francis Bay to evacuate their homes due to a runaway fire currently burning down a number of houses in the area on Tuesday. Firemen work to put out fire at Rio oil refinery Firefighters in Rio de Janeiro work to put out a short-lived fire at the Manguinhos refinery.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.