Canny Maphanga Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Democratic Alliance is of the view that the ANC’s election manifesto is proof that the governing party is not serious about tackling corruption. The manifesto promises to “put an end to state capture, restore the integrity of public institutions and tackle corruption”. “While these promises are all good and well, it is evident that the ANC chooses to gloss over its role in corruption which has had a devastating effect on the provision of services to our people,” DA spokesperson on corruption, Phumzile Van Damme said in a statement on Sunday. The ANC manifesto which was launched on Saturday at Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban proves that unlike the DA, the ruling party has no plan on how it is going to tackle corruption, according to Van Damme. SAfrica's Ramaphosa gives speech at ANC manifesto launch 1ST IMAGES of South Africa's Cyril Ramaphosa's speech at the launch of his party's 2019 election manifesto. The African National Congress (ANC), which has ruled since the end of apartheid 25 years ago, is tipped to win the election in May despite ... “The ANC is incapable of self-correcting and promoting integrity in government, because they are the very people who erode good governance and destroy institutions,” she said. Also read: DA reacts to ANC's 2019 election manifesto The DA further promises that corruption under a government led by the opposition party will lead to a sentence of 15 years imprisonment. The opposition party highlights its plan to fight corruption: “The people of South Africa deserve a government which provides services and keeps them safe, not one which robs them of their futures,” Van Damme concluded. 'ANC Manifesto full of broken promises' DA spokesperson on immigration Jacques Julius says that the manifesto was full of broken promises and offered no solutions to South Africa’s borders and immigration. “I have spent the past six months visiting border posts across the country, engaging with officials and seeing for myself some of the challenges they face daily. “During these inspections, the DA uncovered a number of issues including: illegal cross border trading; alleged social grant fraud; poor military patrolling and hijacking syndicates,” he said in a statement on Sunday. This come after President Cyril Ramaphosa in his address told voters that the governing party would work with other countries to ensure that “there are incentives created for immigrants to stay in the borders of their own country". The opposition party also notes that the ANC manifesto was silent on the state of the Department of Home Affairs (DHA) and the lack of support from the South African National Defence Force (SANDF). “The DHA has no systems to accurately determine the number of undocumented immigrants in the country. When I spoke to SANDF officials off the record, they complained about being under-resourced and it emerged that there may be law enforcement individuals who are working with the syndicates, making it difficult to police these crimes,” he claimed. The DA plan to “fix borders” through the following: “The ANC is incapable of ensuring law and order in the country. A change in leadership is needed and only the DA has a plan to control immigration and secure our borders,” he concluded. ANC launches election manifesto South Africa's ruling ANC party launches its election campaign on Saturday ahead of polls in May that it is tipped to win despite recently falling support, internal divisions and a sluggish economy. On Friday, party members including President Cyr... WATCH: Ramaphosa tees off ahead of ANC's manifesto launch President Cyril Ramaphosa enjoyed a day of golf on Friday morning ahead of  the ANC's birthday celebrations and manifesto launch on Saturday. Ramaphosa played alongside paired players at the Mount Edgecombe Country Club Estate in Durban. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Anti-racism protest shuts down Bronkhorstspruit During a protest against racism in Bronkhorstspruit on Tuesday, where the entire central business district of the small town was shut down, the ANC Youth League in Tshwane have made a call expropriate land belonging to racist farmers. Zuma en Ramaphosa luidkeels ontvang in KwaZulu-Natal Oudpres. Jacob Zuma en pres. Cyril Ramaphosa is luidekeels ontvang deur ANC-ondersteuners by die Ohlange Stadion in KwaZulu-Natal voordat Ramaphosa 'n verklaring voorgelees het. South Africa's ex-president just signed a record deal Former president Jacob Zuma, who is implicated in a major corruption scandal, has been given a taxpayer-funded record deal. Zuma on land: Less debate, more nationalisation Former President Jacob Zuma said there is too much debate about land expropriation without compensation to his liking, and suggested that land should be nationalised. 2017: WATCH: A News24 Festive Season special - politicians 'sing' Last Christmas Watch as South African politicians attempt to 'sing' pop duo Wham!'s 1984 hit single, Last Christmas.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.