Pelane Phakgadi Revision, staying active, working hard: Cream of 2018 matric crop share their insights Some of the 2018 National Senior Certificate (NSC) top achievers say that they remain anxious on how well they have done ahead of the results being announced at Midnight on Thursday. Angie Motshekga, Minister of Basic Education.      Photo: Boipelo Mere Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A number of the class of 2018's top achievers say they remain anxious about how well they have done ahead of the release of the individual National Senior Certificate (NSC) results at midnight on Thursday. Twenty-nine pupils were invited to a special breakfast with Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga to celebrate the latest crop of high performers. The learners do not know how well they have done as yet, but only got a glimpse of their "excellent marks", through congratulatory messages from the minister and her deputy, Enver Surty. - Sign up to receive your matric results and you could win R10 000! 'I strategised; I had a timetable and I stuck to it' - top matric achiever Mapula Sebati Thousands of matrics throughout the country will know their individual results on Wednesday. However, the top achievers for the class of 2015 were celebrated on Tuesday after the official announcement by Minister of Education, Angie Motshekga. "We are proud of you", Motshekga said. One of the boffins at the breakfast was Felicia Makondo from the EPP Minga Secondary School in Malamulele, who told News24 that it was hard work that resulted in her being recognised as one of the top achievers. "I prepared well by understanding the core of topics which we were given," she said. "The main challenge was time management, because the work was not that hard. I had to leave home at six in the morning, and got back after 19:00, so time was a challenge," she said, with a broad smile of her face. READ: Matric results: 98.9% of pupils pass 2018 IEB exams Fellow top achiever Justine Crook-Mansour said she owed her success to self-discipline, and making some time to indulge in extramural activities. "I tried to stay very organised. I had a study timetable, and continued to stay active and played sports. You need to make time for things you enjoy, so that you are not tired by the end of the year," said Crook-Mansour. Motshekga urged the group to focus even more on their future academic endeavours, and hopefully bring about much-needed developments and innovation in the basic education sector. The minister will announce the overall results on Thursday evening.   - See our Matric Results page. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Cape Town matrics beam after receiving IEB marks The young men and women exiting Reddam House Atlantic Seaboard in Cape Town on Thursday couldn't stop smiling when they saw that their hard work had paid off for the IEB national senior certificate exams. 'I strategised; I had a timetable and I stuck to it' - top matric achiever Mapula Sebati Thousands of matrics throughout the country will know their individual results on Wednesday. However, the top achievers for the class of 2015 were celebrated on Tuesday after the official announcement by Minister of Education, Angie Motshekga. WATCH: SAPS escort pupils to matric farewell in Nyala Making an entrance is an extra bonus point when making a statement at a matric farewell. One couple in particular, turned heads when they rocked up in a police Nyala van escorted by police officers at their farewell in Newcastle over the weekend. Head boy and top achiever ready to 'get his future started' King David High School Linksfield's 2017 head boy, who earned seven distinctions in the IEB matric exams, has some advice for those entering their matric year. Here are the alternate avenues to explore if your matric results weren't ideal Here are the alternate avenues to explore of your matric results weren't ideal Matric pass rate should be at 100% - Wits professor Wits professor Marissa Rollnick says a matric pass rate of 100% is achievable. 'Consistency was key for me' - Rebecca Haines, top matric mathematics achiever Top matric mathematics achiever Rebecca Haines from Rustenburg High School For Girls in Cape Town says her excellent results came down to working consistently. Matric exams: How does upward mark adjustment work? Upward mark adjustments usually take place when exam papers are proven to be more difficult than previous years. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. Top SA matric says his rare disease motivated him to study medicine this year After missing almost two terms of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker still managed to be the overall top achiever of 2015. WATCH: You have a second chance to ace matric Universities across the country are about to open up their doors. Although the national pass rate was 71. 5%, many students did not obtain the necessary results to get them into institutions of higher learning. 'The bigger plan is to become president,' says top matric performer Tumelo Mashigo, part of the class of 2017, hopes to one day be president.

The 18-year-old was the second best performing learner with special needs among the most recent matriculants and hopes to make the world a better place one day. WATCH: 5 tips to acing your matric exams Matric examination got underway on Monday across the country. Here are a few tips for A+ results. Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.