Jenna Etheridge (File, Stock Image) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A mother and her two children were shopping in Somerset West on Monday morning when a man approached them and stabbed one of the children, Western Cape police confirmed. The family had been walking in Waterstone Village shopping centre when it happened at around 09:15, said Captain Hein Hendricks. "Both children (a boy and a baby) were inside a shopping trolley with the five-year-old boy sitting in the front," he said. The man walked towards the trolley, took out a knife and stabbed the boy in the chest. Hendricks said the mother, together with security guards, apprehended the man. 'We urge parents to be vigilant' He was arrested on a charge of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm. The boy was understood to be in a stable condition. Centre manager Daphne Kriel said that they were thankful for their Halt security guard who recognised the man from when he was in the vicinity on Friday, and grabbed him in this morning's incident. While speculation on social media has been rife about the man's motive, with some alleging it was an attempted child abduction, Hendricks said the circumstances were still being investigated. Kriel said: "We are so thankful that both the children are not harmed, but we urge our parents to be also vigilant in today's day and age". The man is expected to appear in the Somerset West Magistrate's Court once he has been charged.   WATCH: Suspects run for cover after heavy fire from security officers disrupts armed robbery Two Chinese nationals and their driver were robbed of R23 000 along the M2 near the Main Reef Road exit in Johannesburg on Tuesday. WATCH: Two men who saved man from drowning on beach on New Year's Day say they aren't heroes Two young men put their own lives at risk to save a stranger from drowning on a Western Cape beach on New Year's Day. 
When Dewald van der Westhuizen (22)  and Hannes Swart (22) noticed a man in trouble, they swam to his aid, without thinking twice. WATCH: This 30-year-old family business is a school hotspot for Joburg families Gauteng schools open on Wednesday and parents are on the hunt for affordable school uniforms. WATCH: Emergency personnel working to free people trapped under collided trains At least three people have been confirmed dead, while scores of others have been left injured following a train collision at Mountain View station, Pretoria on
Tuesday morning. WATCH: Police investigate assault at Pretoria pub after owner and employee exchange blows Police are investigating a case of common assault after a man, believed to be an employee of Die Watergat Pub in Pretoria North, was assaulted outside the establishment, presumably by his boss. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. WATCH: OR Tambo Airport security 'accept' cash bribe Security officials at  OR Tambo International Airport are alleged to have accepted a cash bribe from a passenger on Saturday. WATCH: Hijackers caught by Tracker officer on Christmas Day maybe connected to other crimes Police have arrested several suspects in connection to a botch hijacking that happened in Durban on Christmas Eve. WATCH: South African paramedic dies in helicopter crash in the UAE A South African paramedic is among four people who died when a helicopter crashed in Ras al-Khaimah in the north eastern region of the United Arab Emirates.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.