Bonolo Sekudu Young women take a selfie for social media Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  LIVES on social media are just so perfect –
from what people wear, what they eat, where they hang out, and who they are
seen with. It is so easy to create a neatly profiled and dreamy life, to the
envy of others who don’t know that it might not even be real. But how much of
the opinions and the meanness on social media are actually a reflection of who
people really are? Move! speaks to experts who share insight on the advent of
social media and why it has managed to take over the lives of people like it
has. THE RISE OF SOCIAL MEDIA “Social media is causing considerable
changes in culture and society, hence it requires influencers personified by
honesty, sincerity and integrity. Negative influencers, such as the fake-news
spreaders, can damage societies almost irreparably,” says academic and social
media security expert, Dr Zoran Mitrovic. He adds that an increased
affordability of smartphones has contributed to the increased use of social
media in South Africa. Mobile messengers such as WhatsApp and Facebook
Messenger have evidently gained popularity. “It seems that Twitter is still a
social media platform that is most popular for public dialogues. Facebook is
also gaining popularity after the introduction of Facebook Lite,” says Dr
Zoran. Instagram is attaining popularity among younger users, many
professionals are happily joining the LinkedIn platform, and YouTube is
becoming more popular within the business 
world. DOUBLED-EDGED SWORD Dr Zoran says social media is a
double-edged sword that can either have a positive or negative effect in
someone's life. “We have witnessed that social media is also used for
cyberbullying or deceiving people in order to get financial gains. ‘Love scams’
on dating social media sites are also on the rise," says Dr Zoran. He
advises users to familiarise themselves with privacy policies on social media
and get into the habit of not sharing sensitive information with strangers on
these platforms. There is also pressure that comes with trying to live up to
the norm created on social media of living a fun, expensive and problem-free
life. Life coach, Thembi Hama, says, “South Africa has a huge gap between the
rich and the poor, and this stark contrast between the haves and the have-nots
is portrayed on various social media platforms.” She says this can be a cause
of depression, particularly when you are struggling financially and you see
others flaunting their wealth, career achievements and success in life. There
is also the danger of losing yourself in the hype of social media, where you
end up not following your heart and pursuing your unique purpose. LIVING AUTHENTICALLY There is nothing wrong with sharing
pictures of moments in your life or your opinion on social media. However,
Thembi advises that social media should be used sparingly and selectively.
“Most importantly, know yourself. When you have yourself as the centre of
everything you do, you won’t lose yourself in the hype,” she says.      24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.