Kamva Somdyala Ncebo Knonyana balances on his head and does air splits during protest at Cape Town civic centre (Jenni Evans, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Striking MyCiTi workers have been released from the Cape Town civic centre, after the building was placed on lockdown when protests began on the ground floor.WATCH Cape Town Mayor Dan Plato has promised protesting residents that he will visit their communities to get a clearer picture of their grievances. Residents of informal settlements in Cape Town, such as Khayelitsha, Philippi and Kraaifontein, demonstrated outside the Cape Town Civic Centre on Thursday while Plato proposed budget adjustments to council members inside. The protesters demanded, among other things, water and sanitation, electricity and basic services for their areas. When Plato eventually came out, he promised that he and members of his mayoral executive team would visit the communities. VIDEO: 'We pay R2 to use mall toilets' – Cape Town informal settlement residents demand basic servic Five Cape Town communities joined with social justice movements to march to the Cape Town Civic Centre on Thursday. 

The protesters expressed exasperation over the lack of basic services in informal settlements in the city. He listened attentively as residents raised their concerns. Protests outside Cape Town Civic Centre. Residents from different communities in CT calling on mayor Dan Plato to deliver basic services to their communities. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/704W9utMNG While members of various communities in Cape Town protest outside the Civic Centre, mayor Dan Plato is putting before council budget proposals, which include additional millions into safety and security. @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/EpG4DqqnEQ One resident who lived in Khayelitsha outlined reasons why she would not be voting this year. "In my South Africa, I have been denied basic services. What is it with this government that we have voted in that has neglected us?" she asked as protesters cheered. She added: "We go to open fields to relieve ourselves because we have no toilets and we have no water. This makes us easy targets for gangsters, especially at night. Our children do not go to school on some days because of the dirty water around us". Another community member from Kraaifontein said councillors were not doing their jobs. "We have been giving [councillors] our list of grievances, yet they have still done nothing for us." The protesters said they were happy that Plato had addressed them and added that they were looking forward to his visit. In a speech prepared for delivery, Plato, who took over from De Lille in November 2018, said that there had been an increase in service delivery since he took office, with R115m for cleaning up communities and an extra R165m for extra safety measures. WATCH: Dan Plato elected as Cape Town mayor Dan Plato has been elected as Cape Town's new executive mayor during a special council sitting on Tuesday. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. WATCH: Stun grenades fired, rocks hurled in tense standoff between police and MyCiTi strikers Striking MyCiTi workers have been released from the Cape Town civic centre, after the building was placed on lockdown when protests began on the ground floor. WATCH: 'A fairy-tale day' as homeless couple exchanges wedding vows A dream came true for Llewellyn Jenniker and Cecilia Jenniker on Tuesday when the homeless couple, who've been living together on the streets for decades, finally tied the knot. WATCH: MyCiTi employees' 'wildcat' strike continued on Tuesday A "wildcat" strike by MyCiTi employees appeared to enter its second day on Tuesday as the bus service announced disruptions on several routes around Cape Town. WATCH: Zille breaks ground on R3bn mixed-income residential project Western Cape Premier Helen Zille said the "pioneering" housing project expected at the site of the derelict old Conradie Hospital in Cape Town could "make or break" the current housing system.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.