Riaan Grobler WATCH: Pretoria West streets gridlocked as residents burn tyres and block roads Motorists and commuters have been warned to avoid several parts of Pretoria West on Thursday owing to protest action that started in the early hours of the morning. Protest action in Pretoria West on Thursday. (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Motorists and commuters have been warned to avoid several parts of Pretoria West on Thursday due to protest action that started in the early hours of the morning. - Are you there, or are you affected?  Send us your eyewitness accounts and photos. Several routes were gridlocked as burning tyres blocked streets in the area. According to police spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubela, the reason for the protests were unknown. He advised motorists to employ caution and avoid the area. "Police members have been deployed to contain the protests," Makhubela told News24 on Thursday morning. According to unconfirmed reports on social media, the protests were sparked by anger over people who had "occupied" houses in the area. According to reports from motorists in the area, affected areas include Buitenkant, Church, WF Nkomo and Mitchell streets, among others. More to follow.  Avoid Pretoria West: Protest action and a number of roads are blocked. pic.twitter.com/hKOh3MwO2x  Protests at Pretoria west. South Africans removing foreigners who have occupied houses. pic.twitter.com/gVJ175AcCe  Pretoria GAUTENGW F Nkomo Street #PROTEST ACTION (Burning tyres) in the Pretoria West area - ROAD CLOSED - HEAVY TRAFFIC in the area  Reports received of protest action taking place in Pretoria West.Following roads affectedTrans oranje and QuaggaTrans oranje and Vom Hagen N4Trans oranje and ChurchPlease avoid the area and use alternate routes.Be safe.#Protest #Crime @Our_DA pic.twitter.com/LEYCNSYrA7  Rosetta Street Pretoria West South Africa.#SouthAfrica #Protest #Crime pic.twitter.com/QnBntDNXvg  WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: Truck set alight during protest in Isando A truck was set alight allegedly by protesting workers in the plastics sector in Isando, east of Johannesburg on Thursday. WATCH: Outpouring of support in Pretoria after 300 people left homeless following shack fires On Saturday afternoon, 62 shacks burnt down in Plastic View informal settlement adjacent to the NG Gemeente in Moreletapark, Pretoria. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. WATCH: Armed local farmer walks into demonstration in Greyton Western Cape police are probing an incident involving a man who was caught on camera on Monday, wielding a firearm during a demonstration in Greyton. WATCH: Truck carrying bitumen catches fire Part of the R21 near Irene in Pretoria was covered in a cloud of black smoke as a truck transporting bitumen caught fire. WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. WATCH: Huge cobra on the loose in Pretoria apartment block's drainage system Residents of a block of flats in Pretoria East are in for a slithery night as a venomous snouted cobra has taken refuge in the drainage system. WATCH: TUT students march to the police ministry over student death Chaos erupted on Wednesday as around 300 students marched through the Pretoria CBD protesting over the death of a student who was allegedly shot by police last week. WATCH: Car-free zones piloted in Pretoria as part of Transport Month The City of Tshwane has created a temporary Car-Free Zone in the heart of Hatfield in Pretoria on Friday. WATCH: Emergency personnel working to free people trapped under collided trains At least three people have been confirmed dead, while scores of others have been left injured following a train collision at Mountain View station, Pretoria on
Tuesday morning. WATCH: Straight from the horse's mouth - Pretoria preacher uses trusty steed to deliver sermon Seeing a man on a horse is a rare sight nowadays, and a man on his steed in a church, even more so.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.