Jenni Evans Bo-Kaap (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The City of Cape Town is calling for comment on how to protect the Bo-Kaap's heritage and character as developers clamour for prime land in the suburb on the slopes of Signal Hill. This is part of plans to include the neighbourhood known for historic colourful houses, and its close-knit community, in a planned "heritage protection overlay zone (HPOZ)". This follows years of concerns and protests over coveted land within walking distance of the Cape Town CBD being sold to developers for the construction of high-rise buildings. Described as the City's "oldest surviving residential neighbourhood", the Bo-Kaap is also regarded as home to one of South Africa's oldest Muslim communities and is a favourite stop for tourists and photographers. WATCH: Dramatic scenes as Bo-Kaap residents clash with police Three men and one woman have been arrested as a group of protesting Bo-Kaap residents, many of them elderly, attempted to block a developer's crane from entering the area and later clashed with police. "I'm calling on Capetonians to get involved in this public participation process and to tell us what they think," said Mayor Dan Plato. "This is a pivotal time for the City and for the residents of the Bo-Kaap. The outcome of this process will have, for example, an impact on our vision to promote the Bo-Kaap as a heritage tourist destination, to assist the community with related economic development opportunities and to protect its long-term sustainability as a cultural asset." In December, Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa announced at an event organised by the Bo-Kaap Civics and Ratepayers' Association that plans were in place to declare the historic suburb a national heritage site. Thereafter, he would ask Unesco to also declare it a world heritage site. One month to comment The public participation process starts on Friday, January 18, and the cut-off date is February 22, 2019. The City will also host a public hearing at the Civic Centre on Saturday, February 9, for oral representations from community groups and representatives. Plato urged residents and property owners of Bo-Kaap in particular to study the guideline document to be released on Friday, so that they can understand how the proposed zoning might impact them. He explained that all land units within the City have a base zoning that determines what the land can be used for and how it may be developed. An HPOZ sets extra development rules over and above this, so that development applications for properties within the area are assessed more critically. READ: Crane delays: Bo-Kaap residents cheer as developer's crane barred from area temporarily The proposed HPOZ for Bo-Kaap extends to the Table Mountain National Park, and includes the northern green verges to the north-west of Strand Street, and includes Buitengracht Street between the intersections with Carisbrook and Strand Street. The guideline document will be available on the City's website at www.capetown.gov.za/haveyoursay from Friday. The document will also be available to read at the City's offices at 44 Wale Street and at the Table Bay district planning office on the corner of Adderley Street and Hertzog Boulevard. Objections and comments may be submitted before or on February 22, 2019, to lums@capetown.gov.za or online at www.capetown.gov.za/haveyoursay or to the two offices listed above.  I added a video to a @YouTube playlist https://t.co/Icdu0uzEED Beautiful #BoKaap - Friendly #Malay #Culture   WATCH: 'A fairy-tale day' as homeless couple exchanges wedding vows A dream came true for Llewellyn Jenniker and Cecilia Jenniker on Tuesday when the homeless couple, who've been living together on the streets for decades, finally tied the knot. WATCH: Cellphone footage shows violent mob justice on Cape Town promenade On Sunday, the Eden on the bay promenade in Big bay, seemed no different than it usually does on a sunny weekend for the most part of the day. Then the end of the day saw the stretch of grass on the promenade turn into a small war zone. WATCH: Forensic teams comb crime scene after Mihalik shooting A police officer calls for assistance moments after criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik was shot dead in his car in Green Point, Cape Town. WATCH: Cape Town matrics beam after receiving IEB marks The young men and women exiting Reddam House Atlantic Seaboard in Cape Town on Thursday couldn't stop smiling when they saw that their hard work had paid off for the IEB national senior certificate exams. WATCH: Oh beer! Crates of alcohol crash out of beer truck in Cape Town It was unhappy hour for a truck driver who lost a huge load of beer after attempting to turn his vehicle in South Africa on Friday. WATCH: Crowd brutally attacks man armed with paintball gun On Saturday a crowd attacked a man in Seapoint in Cape Town. WATCH: Crash, booze, bang in Cape Town as nearly 12 000 litres of alcohol go down the drain City of Cape Town law enforcement officers popped open more than 16 000 liquor cans and bottles on Thursday as the City prepares for the upcoming festive season. WATCH: Criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik shot dead outside Green Point school Reports have emerged that lawyer Pete Mihalik has been murdered in a Cape Town shooting. WATCH: Dan Plato elected as Cape Town mayor Dan Plato has been elected as Cape Town's new executive mayor during a special council sitting on Tuesday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.