Jenni Evans iStock Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) recently released a report on child sexual abuse and exploitation, based on a study of the approach which 40 countries took to such offences. South Africa was one of the countries included in the study. It ranked 15th out of 40 for its measures to protect children against sexual abuse and exploitation, according to an index the EIU developed. READ: SA ranks 15th out of 40 countries for anti-sexual abuse measures The study also made other observations on the scourge of abuse around the world. Here are 10 things that emerged from the report, titled Out of the Shadows. 1) Just over half (21) of the 40 countries analysed have legal protections for boys within their child rape laws. 2) Sexual abuse is happening everywhere, regardless of a country's socio-economic status or its citizens' quality of life. 3) Sexual abuse is increasingly enabled by the internet but at the same time, an experimental internet program is "crawling" the web to find abusive and exploitative images of children to have them reported and removed. 4) Children with disabilities, those displaced through trafficking or forced migration, those living in care institutions and those who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender can be especially vulnerable. 5) At household and community level, chaotic lifestyles resulting from neglect, alcohol and substance abuse are linked to most forms of violence against and among children. 6) The absence of protective relationships and environments are factors that are often predictive of sexual violence against children across cultures. 7) Education (from pre-school upwards) for children and after-school programmes can have a shielding effect, but the increased mobility to school and back raises the risk of sexual abuse. 8) Patriarchal family structures and the association of manhood with heterosexual prowess are linked to violence against women and children. 9) Engaging in sexual activity in front of a child is banned in only 19 of the 40 countries. 10) Social stigmas associated with sexual violence against boys discourage formal reporting and are exacerbated by "macho" masculine norms, homophobia and fears of being viewed as feminine, vulnerable or helpless. Boys must also be taught the language of how to report sexual abuse. Read the full report here. One in three UN employees have been sexually harassed: survey A third of United Nations employees have reported experiencing sexual harassment at the world body over the last two years, according to the findings of the first-ever survey on such misconduct. Sexual harrassment claim prompts Sanders apology Sen. Bernie Sanders is apologizing to women who've shared experiences of harassment by male supervisors while working on his 2016 presidential campaign. Woman who accuses R Kelly tells him: Time's up A woman who accuses singer R Kelly of sexual abuse said on Monday it was "time to stand up for herself" and told the R&B artist that "time's up".

Faith Rodgers was speaking in New York at a news conference organised by her lawyer in response to t... #Metoo | Dia ,Swara refrains to comment on Rajkumar Hirani The most recent name to have emerged in the #MeToo wave is that of filmmaker Rajkumar Hirani, who has been accused of sexual harassment by a woman assistant Richa Chadha speaks on Rajkumar Hirani Actress Richa Chadha says people in industry are tentative about sexual allegation against Rajkumar Hirani and he is one of the director with the cleanest image Rapp discusses why he came forward to accuse Spacey Anthony Rapp says he accused fellow actor Kevin Spacey of making sexual advances so it wouldn't 'keep happening.' Michigan State names new interim president Michigan State University’s board says interim president John Engler’s resignation is effective immediately. The board acted a day after Engler announced his resignation amid fallout from the case of convicted sexual abuser Larry Nassar First Ukrainian soldier comes out as gay The LGBT community in Ukraine is often under attack but one volunteer soldier has gone public about his sexuality. Razor burn: Gillette ad stirs online uproar A Gillette ad for men invoking the #MeToo movement is sparking intense online backlash, Since it debuted Monday, the Internet-only ad has garnered nearly 19 million views on YouTube, Facebook and Twitter — a level of buzz that any brand would covet. #Metoo | Hirani among 'most decent' people says Javed Akhtar Rajkumar Hirani is among the most decent people in the Hindi film industry, veteran writer-lyricist Javed Akhtar has said in support of the filmmaker, who has been accused of sexual misconduct by a woman. McConaughey and Hathaway tease 'sexy noir' Actors Matthew McConaughey and Anne Hathaway do their best to avoid spoiling the plot of "sexual noir thriller," "Serenity." SHOCKED Arshad on Rajkumars Sexual harassment row, How is this possible? Actor Arshad Warsi, one half of the indomitable Munna-Circuit duo of Rajkumar Hirani's "Munna Bhai M.B.B.S", says it is wrong to jump to conclusions about the filmmaker as a #MeToo story has emerged against him. Asked about a woman's allegation th... Sharman Joshi espouses Raju Hirani with 'I Stand For Raju Hirani' hashtag Sharman Joshi on Monday said he stands by his "3 Idiots" director Rajkumar Hirani, who has been accused of sexual assault by a woman. The actor has called the filmmaker a man of immense integrity, character and honour. Katy Perry reveals school suspension Katy Perry was once suspended from school for pretending a tree was Tom Cruise and "making sexual motions" towards it. ShowBiz Minute: R Kelly, McGowan, Rockstar Games R. Kelly accuser says he threatened to reveal her sex life; Rose McGowan pleads no contest to misdemeanor drug charge; Rockstar defends Pinkerton name in "Red Dead Redemption 2." Calif. diocese releases names of alleged abusers A San Francisco Bay-area Roman Catholic diocese has released a list of 39 priests and deacons who church leaders say have been credibly accused of sexual abuse. Bishop Robert Vasa of the Santa Rosa Diocese commented on the list Monday. R. Kelly accuser: 'Times Up' Attorney Gloria Allred held a press conference in New York in response to threats allegedly made by R&B artist R. Kelly to Faith Rodgers who said she had a relationship with Kelly when she was 19-years old. #MeToo | Rajkumar Hirani accused of sexual assault, he denies Filmmaker Rajkumar Hirani has been accused of sexual assault by a woman who worked with him in his 2018 film "Sanju". He has denied the allegation. According to a HuffPost India article on Sunday, the woman claimed that Hirani sexually abused her ... Canadian FM: glad to help Saudi woman in danger Canadian FM Chrystia Freeland says the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees found that a Saudi woman fleeing alleged family abuse was in a dangerous situation and that Canada was glad to be able to act quickly and offer her refuge. Attorney: R. Kelly denies any sexual misconduct R. Kelly's attorney says the R&B star never knowingly had sex with a minor, sexually abused any woman or held anyone against their will. Canada ‘pleased’ to grant asylum to Saudi teen: Trudeau Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says granting asylum to a Saudi woman fleeing alleged abuse by her family shows Canada’s “unequivocal” support for human rights. Rahaf Mohammed Alqunun, 18, is flying to Toronto via Seoul, South Korea. Analysis: Funding wall not at level of emergency Experts say that President Donald Trumps' plan to declare a national emergency to pay for his border wall does not meet the level of crisis that the National Emergencies Act intended and is abuse of the law. Alphabet board sued for cover-up Two shareholder lawsuits filed this week accused the board of Google parent Alphabet of playing a direct role in covering up sexual misconduct claims against two former executives over the last five years. Las Vegas police seek soccer star Cristiano Ronaldo's DNA in rape investigation Police in Nevada ask Italian authorities to get a DNA sample from Portuguese soccer star Cristiano Ronaldo in the investigation of accusations that he raped a woman a decade ago in Las Vegas. Lady Gaga speak out about R Kelly collab Lady Gaga has vowed to remove her duet with R.Kelly duet, 'Do What U Want, from "all streaming services" following the allegations of sexual misconduct made against him on the documentary series 'Surviving R. Kelly'. 'White is seen as more desirable' British Bangladeshi vloggers Bilal and Mima say Asian people abuse each other over how dark their skin is. Ashley Judd's sexual harassment case against Harvey Weinstein dismissed Ashley Judd's sexual harassment case against disgraced producer, Harvey Weinstein has been dismissed. 'That's hogwash!'- Pule Mabe on accusations of intimate relationship with former PA ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe, who is currently on leave from that role pending the outcome of the inquiry of sexual harassment claims, strongly denied claims that he and his former assistant had an intimate relationship of sorts in the past. Ashley Judd's lawsuit against Weinstein dismissed A federal judge in Los Angeles has dismissed actress Ashley Judd’s sexual harassment claim against movie producer Harvey Weinstein, but says that Judd could proceed with a defamation claim. Comatose woman gives birth, police investigating Authorities in Phoenix are investigating the sexual assault of a woman who has been in a vegetative state for years at a long-term care facility after the patient unexpectedly gave birth to a child in late December. Josh Brolin celebrates five years of sobriety The Avengers: Infinity War actor took to Instagram to reflect on his past struggle with alcohol abuse and celebrate his sobriety. Prosecutor says R. Kelly allegations ‘sickening’ A Chicago prosecutor has asked any possible victims or witnesses of alleged abuse by R. Kelly to contact her office. She says the allegations are 'sickening.' Anna Soubry: Nobody is above the law when it comes to abuse Anna Soubry MP says it was "hugely offensive" to be branded a "Nazi". Police enhance presence around Parliament after MP abuse The Metropolitan Police will will review its policing plan around Parliament Neflix comedy tackles sexuality as 'honestly as possible' "Sex Education," starring Asa Butterfield and Gillian Anderson, explores the contemporary sexual landscape in a time-warped trans-Atlantic love letter to the U.S.. Paul Gascoigne pleads not guilty to sexual assault Former England footballer Paul Gascoigne will defend himself against a sex assault charge by saying he has a propensity to kiss people "in a non-sexual manner", a court heard.

The 51-year-old was arrested while travelling on a train between York ... French cardinal goes on trial accused of helping cover up abuse The most senior French Catholic cleric to stand trial over one of the paedophilia scandals that have rocked the church denies covering up for a priest who abused boy scouts in the 1980s and 90s. AP Top Stories January 7 Here are the top stories for Monday, January 7th: Trump plans prime time address on border wall; Uber driver in Michigan pleads guilty to killings; Kevin Spacey makes court appearance in sex abuse case ; Ice sculptors compete in Chinese competition. Kevin Spacey walking into courthouse for arraignment hearing Kevin Spacey walking into court where he will appear before a judge on the tony destination island of Nantucket, Massachusetts over accusations he sexually assaulted a teenager in 2016. Kevin Spacey leaves courthouse after arraignment hearing Kevin Spacey leaves the court where he appeared before a judge on the tiny destination island of Nantucket, Massachusetts over accusations he sexually assaulted a teenager in 2016. Saudi woman seeking asylum leaves airport An 18-year-old Saudi woman who was stopped in Bangkok as she was trying to travel to Australia for asylum to escape alleged abuse by her family on Monday left her airport hotel room for temporary admission into Thailand. The Golden Globes is back, bringing Time's Up once again Celebrities dazzle on the red carpet in colourful ensembles and accessories supporting the movement against sexual harassment before the annual Hollywood awards show. Saudi woman barricades herself in Thai Hotel A Saudi woman who says she is fleeing abuse by her family and wants asylum in Australia barricaded herself in an airport hotel in the Thai capital on Monday.  Rahaf Mohammed Alqunun has sent out desperate pleas for help over social media. Where Catholic abuse brings division and hatred Poland's rural east is one of the most devoutly Catholic regions in Europe. When the Church's global sexual abuse crisis struck clergy here, it divided towns into camps of denial, fury, and loathing. Timothee Chalamet's mum freaked out by son's 'Beautiful Boy' weight loss Timothee Chalamet apparently really worried his mum with his weight loss for his role as a drug addict in ‘Beautiful Boy’. Saoirse Ronan's mum 'protected her from abuse in Hollywood' Saorise Ronan has shared how it was her mum who kept her well away from any sexual misconduct drama as she was making her name in Hollywood. Abuse survivor: Archdiocese of Chicago didn't care Several clergy abuse victims and their attorney are calling for the names of bishops accused of sexual abuse to be released to the public. Meanwhile, U.S. bishops are gathered at a seminary near Chicago to pray amid the clergy sex abuse scandal. Filming 'The Tale' made Laura Dern realise past encounters were sexual assault Laura Dern has shared that she realised she was a victim of sexual misconduct while she was filming ‘The Tale’ Abuse victims urge action as bishops meet to pray As U.S.-based Roman Catholic bishops are meeting outside Chicago on the church sexual abuse scandal, many are dismayed that it has taken so long for the church leadership to meet and act after so many years. Afghan football boss denies sex abuse claims Afghan football boss Keramuddin Karim rejects allegations he sexually and physically abused members of the women's national team.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.