Jenna Etheridge Nicole Philips of Maragon Ruimsig (supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Independent Examinations Board (IEB) has reported a 98.76% matric pass rate for 2017.

WATCH Having a jam-packed year with lots of different activities and responsibilities was the secret to doing well for Nicole Philips, who bagged eight distinctions in the 2018 IEB examinations. "I find I do so much better when I am busy," the 18-year-old said with a laugh, ahead of finding out her results on Thursday. - Sign up to receive your matric results and you could win R10 000! Philips received the top achiever for Grade 12 award at Maragon Ruimsig in Randburg. She also received a special honours blazer to represent her achievement of full colours in academics, culture and service. Olympiads, national performing arts competitions, public speaking, choir, prefect duties, serving the community - just reading the long list of her involvement and achievement in activities could tire one out. 'A lot of juggling' But Philips takes it all in her stride. She told News24 that she had to juggle a lot of things in a "very busy" year, but had achieved what she set out to do thanks to the support of her family, and also by escaping through hobbies. Rehearsing a lead role for her school's drama production was one of the things that kept her going. "I had to juggle the rehearsals with studying. I also had prefect duties, which meant I had to stay after school a lot and late nights. The toughest part was the time management." - See our Matric Results page. Another passion which relaxed her was playing guitar, something she started when she got her first instrument at the age of eight. While she stopped playing in a band two years ago because it took a lot of time, she still enjoyed "exercising her right brain". "When you get home from a long day, you pick up your guitar and just play. Write songs to get off the stresses of the day." Tribute to her mother Philips is excited to study a BSc in Actuarial Science at the University of Pretoria, following in the footsteps of her brother Michael, who is entering his second year of studies. Her father died when she was 10 and she credits her mother Lauren, "the strongest person I know", with inspiring her to do her best. "I can only hope to grow up to treat others with the same compassion, love and care with which she has blessed upon me, my older brother and all she knows."  WATCH: TUT students march to the police ministry over student death Chaos erupted on Wednesday as around 300 students marched through the Pretoria CBD protesting over the death of a student who was allegedly shot by police last week. #OurLostChildren: Remembering Boitshoko Bopape - killed by falling street light Dimakatso Bopape misses the evening chats she would have with her only daughter, just before they turned in for the night. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. WATCH: Freedom Park residents demonstrate outside Luthuli House Luthuli House in the Johannesburg CBD should brace itself for a "sleepover" if the Gauteng government doesn't address issues raised by landless residents of Freedom Park in the south of the city. Could this be Africa's strongest man? Cheick Sanou, known as Iron Biby, was bullied when he was young. Now the man from Burkina Faso has turned his weight into his strength and wants to be the world's strongest man. AB expects high quality cricket in Mzansi Super League Tshwane Spartans captain AB de Villiers admits that he is proud of South Africa hosting its own T20 tournament and expects an entertaining Mzansi Super League. WATCH: Suspected Pretoria burglar caught breaking into school A 30-year-old suspect was arrested while breaking into a Pretoria Primary School on Wednesday morning. Oldest living couple reveal the secret to their marriage This couple has been married for 80 years. Find out the secret to their long-lasting marriage WATCH: Here's how a Ford Ranger Raptor is built Kyle Kock recently visited Ford's Silverton plant in Pretoria to find out first hand how a Ranger Raptor is built and also lending a hand in the build process. WATCH: 'Edna Molewa's life was one of sacrifice, selflessness and service'  - Cyril Ramaphosa An official funeral service for the late Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa was held in Pretoria on Saturday.

President Cyril Ramaphosa delivered the eulogy at the Tshwane Events Centre. Building a Ford Ranger Raptor Kyle Kock recently visited Ford's Silverton plant in Pretoria to find out first hand how a Ranger Raptor is built and also lending a hand in the build process. WATCH: Suicide scourge forces students to march for better mental health support Around 100 students held a silent march through the University of Pretoria's main campus on Thursday.

This follows 23 reported attempted suicides by students at the institution in 2018 alone. WATCH: Huge cobra on the loose in Pretoria apartment block's drainage system Residents of a block of flats in Pretoria East are in for a slithery night as a venomous snouted cobra has taken refuge in the drainage system. WATCH: Weekend hail leaves parts of Pretoria covered in ice Severe weather conditions hit large parts of Gauteng this past weekend after the South African Weather Service (SAWS) issued a notice for severe thunderstorms across the province. WATCH: Car-free zones piloted in Pretoria as part of Transport Month The City of Tshwane has created a temporary Car-Free Zone in the heart of Hatfield in Pretoria on Friday. What's the secret to the Markle marvel? Meghan Markle met adoring crowds as she visited Wales with her fiance Prince Harry. Shooting hoops at 107 years old The secret to a long life is "liking people and breathing," Eileen Ash says. Kataif: Gaza's famous Ramadan dessert We're in Gaza to find out the secret behind the famous Ramadan dessert 'Kataif.' WATCH: The Sasol Solar Challenge Sasol Solar Challenge 2018 took place from the 22nd to the 30th of September. World's Strongest Man winner is deciding whether to become a 'film icon' The World's Strongest Man winner Eddie Hall reflects on his victory and debates whether he will continue competing or become the UK's answer to Arnold Schwarzenegger. Eddie Hall wins World's Strongest Man 2017 Packaged highlights of Eddie Hall winning World's Strongest Man 2017.

The man known as The Beast, beat four-time champion Brian Shaw to claim the title in Botswana. A court interpreter in South Africa Royce Buda is one of the most important people at the Pretoria High Court. The interpreter speaks 16 languages and therefore he is vital in most cases. South Africa is a country with many languages. WATCH: Straight from the horse's mouth - Pretoria preacher uses trusty steed to deliver sermon Seeing a man on a horse is a rare sight nowadays, and a man on his steed in a church, even more so. You Won't Believe What These Shiny Balls Are Made Of These perfect spheres might look carved out of rock or stone, but you won't believe what the secret ingredient really is. Chef Anthony Rose shares the secret to a perfect pastrami sandwich Chef Anthony Rose says getting the right carve is an important step to creating a perfect pastrami sandwich. Rose aims to blend comfort fare and cultural cuisine in his cookbook “The Last Schmaltz.” Priyanka Chopra reveals she goes through five outfits a day Priyanka Chopra has revealed that people often ask her how she looks fresh all the time when she has such a crazy life, and that the secret is that she changes her outfit around five times a day. From bullied to beloved: Burkina Faso's strongest man Cheick Ahmed Al-Hassan Sanou, known as Iron Biby, is one of the strongest men in the world. Originally from Burkina Faso, he says he wants to inspire young people in his home country to follow their athletic dreams. PSC Insurance Group buys Workers Compensation Services 02 Nov 2018 - PSC Insurance Group (ASX:PSI) have bought Workers Compensation Services (WCS) to enhance and strengthen their existing workers compensation consulting capability. Insurance Australia Group bolsters reinsurance for 2019 03 Jan 2019 - Insurance Australia Group (ASX:IAG) has finalised its catastrophe reinsurance program for the 2019 calendar year, increasing it by $1 billion to $9 billion. WATCH: Outpouring of support in Pretoria after 300 people left homeless following shack fires On Saturday afternoon, 62 shacks burnt down in Plastic View informal settlement adjacent to the NG Gemeente in Moreletapark, Pretoria. Sandra Bullock's facialist  reveals the secret to A-list skin Sandra Bullock's facialist reveals the one product she would use if she was stranded. The ever-changing graffiti canvas of Sao Paulo's Vila Madalena is a once in a lifetime experience The name says it all. It's the backdrop and set for insta-selfies and professional shoots alike. In a pitch meeting, Ashton Kutcher is the secret weapon In a pitch meeting, Ashton Kutcher is the secret weapon   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.