Sesona Ngqakamba Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A senior Sedibeng traffic officer was shot dead on Tuesday night during a house robbery in Cassandra Street, Vereeniging. Around midnight, the 49-year-old man and his wife were shot at while they were asleep, Gauteng police spokesperson Kay Makhubele said on Wednesday. The officer's wife was wounded and taken to a local health facility for medical attention, while he was certified dead on the scene. Also read: Arson attack on ANC Sedibeng regional office being investigated Makhubele said the motive behind the robbery was still unknown. A case of murder and attempted murder was being investigated. "Anyone with information may contact the SAPS in Vereeniging or visit their nearest police station. Information may also be provided by calling the Crime Stop number 08600 10111. Callers may remain anonymous and information received will be treated with the confidentiality," said Makhubele.    WATCH: Security officer robbed of his firearm in parking lot A private security guard was robbed of his firearm at gunpoint at a shopping centre in Soweto. WATCH | Wife, colleagues pay tribute to metro cop killed by taxi A Durban metro police officer, who was run over and killed while on duty outside the Galleria Mall in Amanzimtoti, will be laid to rest on Monday morning. WATCH: 'Do not fight me, I'm doing my job'- traffic officer keeps his cool with motorist A traffic officer has been applauded for keeping calm during an altercation with a motorist in Vryheid, north of KwaZulu-Natal. WATCH: Durban metro police officer charges at motorist A video of an altercation between a Durban Metro police officer and a driver has gone viral on social media. WATCH: Free State police department confirms sleeping traffic cop is 'on medication' The Free State Department of Police, Roads and Transport has responded to a viral video of a traffic officer apparently caught sleeping on the job. WATCH: IPID probe case of police brutality after woman's arrest The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) is investigating a case of police brutality after a Pretoria West woman was pulled by her hair and violently shoved into a police van.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.