Alex Mitchley WATCH: IEC hails new law to ensure transparency in political party funding President Cyril Ramaphosa signed the Political Party Funding bill into law on Tuesday. Chief electoral officer of the Electoral Commission of SA (IEC), Sy Mamabolo, has welcomed the signing into law of the Political Party Funding Act, but it seems that it won't take effect in time for the looming general elections. "The assenting to the act is another historic milestone in the continuing entrenchment of electoral democracy in our country and will serve to enhance transparency and help to ensure an informed electorate into the future," Mamabolo said at a media briefing on Wednesday. It is unlikely that the act, which forces parties to disclose private funding, will be enforced before the elections in May because it needs to be enacted at least six months before an election. READ: Ramaphosa signs bill to lay bare political party funding WATCH: 10 million eligible voters are unregistered - IEC Almost 10 million South Africans who are eligible to vote are not registered, the Independent Electoral Commission said on Wednesday. "The drafting of regulations relating to the various aspects of the act is already under way and it is expected that they will be published for public comment before the end of February 2019." "In discussions with Parliament and National Treasury, it was always envisaged that the act would be implemented in a staggered process beginning April 1, 2019, in line with the available funding and to allow for the development of capacity within the electoral commission to meet its obligations," Mamabolo said, However, due to the time constraints and practicality, it might be impossible for political parties to disclose their funding before the elections, Mamabolo added. 10 million eligible voters not registered Meanwhile, IEC chairperson Glen Mashinini urged the youth to register to vote in the final voter registration drive this weekend. Of the 10 million, almost two thirds (6.5 million) are between the ages of 18 and 30, he added. The IEC is planning special registration drives at tertiary education institutions to boost youth registration numbers. The commission said 26 million people were on the voters' roll and that they hoped to increase that number by 1 million over the weekend. The 22 925 registration stations across the country will be open from 8:00 to 17:00 on Saturday and Sunday. In addition to registering, voters can also visit their closest stations to check their details and confirm or update their addresses. "Voters should take their barcoded ID book, smart card ID or temporary ID certificate when they go and register," Mashinini said. Voters will also have to provide their addresses or descriptions of where they live to allow the commission to put them on the correct segment of the voter's roll. Voter registration for South Africans living abroad is expected to take place between 1 and 4 February. Mashinini added that once President Cyril Ramaphosa proclaimed the elections, which was expected to occur in the next few weeks, the voters' roll will be sealed and no further registrations will be allowed. DA billboard under investigation During the media briefing, the IEC also confirmed that they were still investigating a complaint about a DA billboard erected in Johannesburg. Mamabolo said that complaints of such a nature were thoroughly investigated and the matter would be dealt with in the normal course. READ: ANC lays complaint at IEC over DA's billboard The billboard in question listed the names of victims in several tragedies in South Africa under the slogan: "The ANC is killing us." WATCH: Political parties say they are ready for the coming elections Political parties say that they are ready for the coming elections. Speaking to News24 at the IEC elections launch at the Gallagher Convention Centre, the leaders also urged those eligible to vote to go register on January 26 and 27. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. WATCH: Ramaphosa tees off ahead of ANC's manifesto launch President Cyril Ramaphosa enjoyed a day of golf on Friday morning ahead of  the ANC's birthday celebrations and manifesto launch on Saturday. Ramaphosa played alongside paired players at the Mount Edgecombe Country Club Estate in Durban. WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma. WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.