Canny Maphanga A man who is suspected to have been involved in the bombing of a cash-in-transit van. (Chief Superintendent Wilfred Kgasago, EMPD) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Police have arrested a man who is suspected to have been involved in the bombing of a cash-in-transit van belonging to Fidelity Security Group in early November 2018 in Tshongweni, Katlehong. The incident resulted in an Ekurhuleni Metro Police Department officer being seriously wounded. READ: We are alive only by the grace of God - Cash-in-transit security officer "On Monday, around 19:30, the suspect was spotted and the operational team cornered him whereupon an AK47 with two magazines and sixty live rounds as well as a 9mm pistol with filed off serial numbers were recovered in his car and at his house at Sunrise Ext II in Zonkizizwe," Chief Superintendent Wilfred Kgasago said in a statement on Tuesday. This comes after police started closely monitoring the suspect after receiving information. The man, believed to be in his forties, is being detained at the Zonkizizwe police station and will appear in the Heidelberg Magistrate's Court soon. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Looters descend on cash-in-transit vehicle after Mpumalanga heist Another day and another cash-in-transit heist. This time, the suspects were filmed while in the act in Mpumalanga. WATCH: CCTV footage of brazen robbery at Durban curry restaurant The Copper Chimney at the Chatsworth Centre, near Durban, was stormed and robbed by four men as the restaurant was closing up on Sunday night, East Coast Radio (ECR) reported. WATCH: Suspected Pretoria burglar caught breaking into school A 30-year-old suspect was arrested while breaking into a Pretoria Primary School on Wednesday morning.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.