Correspondent The scene of the blast in the Philippines.  (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories President Cyril Ramaphosa has, on behalf of the government and people of South Africa, extended the country's deepest condolences to President Rodrigo Duterte and the people of the Republic of the Philippines following the unjustifiable terrorists attacks that took place on Sunday, January 27, where two bombs exploded at Jolo Cathedral in Sulu, in the southern Philippines, killing 20 people and wounding scores of others. "The South African government wishes to express its sincere condolences to the families and friends for the loss of their loved ones and speedy recovery to the injured. During this trying time, the thoughts of South Africans are with the people and the government of the Philippines," the Presidency said in a statement. "Terrorism in any form and from whichever quarter cannot be condoned. South Africa stands firmly with the international community in condemning all terrorism. The South African government will continue to support regional and international efforts to address the scourge of terrorism in all its forms." READ: 19 dead as bombs target cathedral in southern Philippines Double bomb explosion in Philippines kills at least 27 At least 27 people have been killed by two bombs during during a church service in the southern Philippines. On Sunday, two bombs exploded outside a Roman Catholic cathedral on a southern Philippine island where Muslim militants are active, killing at least 19 people and wounding nearly 50 during a Sunday Mass, officials said, according to AP. The first bomb went off in or near the Jolo cathedral in the provincial capital, followed by a second blast outside the compound as government forces were responding to the attack, security officials said. Philippine National Police chief Oscar Albayalde said that at least 19 people died and 48 were wounded. Police and military reports said the casualties included both troops and civilians. Photos on social media showed debris and bodies lying on a busy street outside the Cathedral of Our Lady of Mount Carmel, which has been hit by bombs in the past. Troops in armoured carriers sealed off the main road leading to the church while vehicles were transporting the dead and wounded to the hospital. Some casualties were evacuated by air to nearby Zamboanga city. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. Form+ | Startup Battlefield Africa 2017 Form+ presents in the Productivity and Utility category for Startup Battlefield Africa SynCommerce | Startup Battlefield Africa 2017 SynCommerce presents in the Gaming and Entertainment category for Startup Battlefield Africa AgroCenta | Startup Battlefield Africa 2017 AgroCenta presents in the Social Good category at Startup Battlefield Africa Talent2Africa | Startup Battlefield Africa 2017 Talent2Africa presents in the Social Good category at Startup Battlefield Africa 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Tango TV | Startup Battlefield Africa 2017 Tango TV presents in the Gaming and Entertainment category for Startup Battlefield Africa Here are 7 things you may not have known about Babes Wodumo She's one of the most popular female artists in South Africa at the moment, but how well do you actually know Babes Wodumo? (Photos: Gallo Images) Solving Africa's Connectivity Equation | Startup Battlefield Africa How to close the connectivity gap in Africa and bring more people online through infrastructure, services and devices Who should own South Africa's land? Plans to redistribute land from white farmers to landless blacks are raising deep feelings. Here's why. Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. South Africa's contestant is crowned Miss Universe South Africa's Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters has been crowned Miss Universe. The 22-year-old, who recently earned a business management degree, beat 92 other women from around the world. Thousands rally against Duterte's proposed martial law extension Activists marched to the presidential palace in Manila on International Human Rights Day to protest against President Rodrigo Duterte's proposed extension of martial law in Mindanao. Albie Sachs: We haven't got Africa back An architect of South Africa's constitution says there has been little change in land ownership. ConnectedMed | Startup Battlefield Africa 2017 ConnectedMed presents in the Social Good category at Startup Battlefield Africa M-Shule | Startup Battlefield Africa 2017 M-Shule presents in the Social Good category at Startup Battlefield Africa SA train collision leaves 600 injured A train collision in South Africa's capital Pretoria kills at least three and injures more than 600. Big5 Games | Startup Battlefield Africa 2017 Big5 Games presents in the Gaming and Entertainment category for Startup Battlefield Africa And the winners of Startup Battlefield Africa 2017 are... And the winners of Startup Battlefield Africa 2017 are... Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Eleven taxi drivers shot dead in South Africa Gunmen shot dead 11 taxi drivers returning to Johannesburg from the funeral of a colleague in Kwa-Zulu Natal. Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine. How to speak 'Black Panther' The official language of Wakanda is isiXhosa - also spoken in parts of South Africa South Africa: Muti - a threat to nature In order to meet the huge demand for the traditional remedies known as 'muti', plants in South Africa are being harvested on a scale that is no longer sustainable. The pepper-bark tree, for example, is widely used, even though it is endangered. Bangsamoro autonomy explained Muslims in the Southern Philippines have been struggling for self-determination for centuries. For over five decades, they have been at odds with the Philippine government, which resulted in one of the deadliest and longest-running conflicts in As... South Philippines Muslims in polling stations for self-rule vote Polls open in the southern Philippines island of Mindanao on a vote to give the nation's Muslim minority greater control over the region. The plebiscite aims to put and end to violence which has claimed some 150,000 lives. Muslim Bangsamoro people gain autonomy in southern Philippines Five million Muslims in southern Philippines have gained autonomy after Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte signed the Bangsamoro Organic Law. (BOL) Africa Cup of Nations 2019 host unveiled on Tuesday African Football's organisers CAF says it will announce today whether Egypt or South Africa will stage the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations bi-annual tournament. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. Philippines vows to crush church bomb attackers The Philippines said on Sunday it would destroy those behind a twin bomb attack on a cathedral in the country's restive south. Families of Philippine bomb attacks condemn violence Wounded victims of the January 27 twin bombing of a cathedral on the Muslim-majority island of Jolo, in the southern Philippines, are airlifted into a nearby city as relatives of those who died condemn the killing of innocent civilians. The attack... Vedanta will invest Rs 8500 Cr more in South Africa Sources tell BTVI that London-based Vedanta will invest Rs 8500 crore more in South Africa. BTVI has also learnt that Vedanta chairman Anil Agarwal, who was part of the South African President Cyril Ramaphosa’s delegation for India’s Republic Day ... SAfrica's Ramaphosa gives speech at ANC manifesto launch 1ST IMAGES of South Africa's Cyril Ramaphosa's speech at the launch of his party's 2019 election manifesto. The African National Congress (ANC), which has ruled since the end of apartheid 25 years ago, is tipped to win the election in May despite ... SAfrica's Ramaphosa gives speech at ANC manifesto launch 1ST IMAGES of South Africa's Cyril Ramaphosa's speech at the launch of his party's 2019 election manifesto. The African National Congress (ANC), which has ruled since the end of apartheid 25 years ago, is tipped to win the election in May despite ... Activists protest Duterte's planned extension of martial law in southern Philippines Around a thousand activists marched to the presidential palace in Manila on International Human Rights Day, to protest against Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte's proposed extension of martial law in the south. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. 8 Incredible hikes in SA that will clear the mind South Africa is blessed with some of the best hiking trails in the world, but here's just a few to get you started on planning your next trek through nature. Zimbabwe: Help for Africa's wild dogs Wild dogs are among the most endangered carnivores in Africa, with only several thousand left. The Save Valley Conservancy in southeastern Zimbabwe is one of the last places they can roam freely. Two cute lion cubs make adorable debut at Vladisovstok zoo A in the Russia’s Far East Vladivostok received two adorable white lion cubs. The rare cubs arrived from Belarus and now are nursed by the zoo’s workers. Due to the rarity of the white lions, the babies have weak immune system and fed every two ho... Double bombing targets Sunday mass in Philippine cathedral At least 20 people have been killed and 81 injured after two bombs exploded at a Catholic cathedral in the Philippines.

The first bomb went off in or near the church in Jolo during Sunday mass.

This was followed by a second blast outside the bui... At least two killed in bomb attack in southern Philippine city Police officers and government officials respond to a bomb attack in a shopping mall in the southern Philippine city of Cotabato. Culpable at 12? Phillipines moves to reduce age of criminal responsibilty The Philippine government is one step closer to lowering the age of criminal responsibility to 12.

The country's President Rodrigo Duterte is pushing for the change, claiming that drug barons are using children as mules - he originally favoured t... WATCH: Ramaphosa calls on private sector to assist with the fight against corruption Corruption has become a big issue that has to be addressed by the whole nation, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Thursday. Rwandan brewer starts producing Heineken beer Rwanda's biggest brewer, Bralirwa Ltd, is hoping to boost sales of Heineken by brewing the beer locally. Colourful Philippines jeepneys to be phased out The iconic Philippine minibuses known as jeepneys have for decades provided cheap transport for millions, their colourful paintjobs resembling a vivid outdoor art gallery. But pollution and safety concerns mean they're facing the end of the road, ... Digitizing Africa's Creative Industries | Startup Battlefield Africa Obi Asika (Dragon Africa), Blinky Bill (Just a Band), Graeme Cumming (MultiChoice), Monique Idlett-Mosley (Reign Venture Capital), and Samuel Mensah (Kisua) talk with TechCrunch editor Ingrid Lunden. Death toll from Philippine landslides, floods climbs to 85 The death toll from landslides and devastating floods in the central Philippines triggered by a tropical depression climbed to 85, officials said on Wednesday. Disrupt Africa First Show Disrupt Africa First Show 78,000 x 550? This boy knows the answer Sibahle Zwane is only 10, but his maths skills have made him an internet sensation in South Africa.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.