Jan Gerber South Africa started off the New Year by officially assuming its seat as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) for the period 2019-2020. South Africa's tenure in the Security Council will be dedicated to the legacy of former president Nelson Mandela, whose values and commitment to peace were commemorated last year during the centenary of his birth, according to the Department of International Relations and Cooperation. South Africa's term will also be an opportunity for the country to work towards the African Union's goal of "Silencing the Guns" on the continent by 2020. Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Lindiwe Sisulu said on Tuesday: "The world is facing huge challenges, including rising unilateralism and widening geo-political divisions. These challenges threaten our collective resolve to address global challenges of peace, security and development. WATCH: President Cyril Ramaphosa unveils Nelson Mandela statue at UN headquarters President Cyril Ramaphosa has unveiled a life-sized statue of late president Nelson Mandela at the United Nations (UN) headquarters in New York, as South Africa celebrates Heritage Day on Monday. "South Africa will thus utilise its tenure on the Security Council to promote the maintenance of international peace and security through advocating for the peaceful settlement of disputes and inclusive dialogue," Sisulu said. A focus on women in conflict resolution She said South Africa will encourage closer cooperation between the UN Security Council and other regional and sub-regional organisations, particularly the African Union. "We would further wish to emphasise the role of women in the resolution of conflict. Thus, during our time on the Council, South Africa will ensure that a gender perspective is mainstreamed into all Security Council resolutions in line with UNSC Resolution 1325 (2000) on Women, Peace and Security." She said South Africa looks forward to collaborating with all other members of the Security Council in promoting the maintenance of international peace and security and the social well-being and advancement of all the peoples of the world. South Africa was elected to serve on the Council by the United Nations General Assembly on June 8, 2018. President Cyril Ramaphosa said at the time: "This will be the third time that South Africa will be serving in the Security Council since the dawn of democracy in 1994. We are humbled and honoured by the confidence the international community has demonstrated in our capability to contribute to the resolution of global challenges." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Children of War: Life after Aleppo According to statistics from the United Nations, 1.5 million Syrians have been handicapped due to the war in their homeland. More than 80,000 of these had to have limb amputations, and many of these, like 10-year-old Majida, are children. Annan: World lacking 'strong leaders' The former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan has said "cool heads and sober judgement" are needed. Former UN leader Kofi Annan has died Kofi Annan, the Nobel Peace Prize laureate and first black UN Secretary General, has died at the age of 80. Matthew Larotonda reports WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. Trudeau: More pressure needed to stop North Korea nuclear program Prime Minister Justin Trudeau says Canada will continue to put pressure on North Korea to halt its nuclear weapons program. The United Nations reports that the country has done little to stop its nuclear program. Amal Clooney criticises Donald Trump over journalist comments Amal Clooney criticises Donald Trump for giving autocrats 'green light' to persecute journalists.
The wife of Hollywood star George Clooney was named the UN's global citizen of the year at a ceremony in New York.
Footage courtesy of the United Nat... 40 people cycle from Vienna to Katowice for COP24 About 40 people from various institutions and countries arrive at the United Nations' conference COP24 in Katowice, Poland, having cycled over 600 kilometres on electric bikes from Vienna to demonstrate the value of cycling and e-mobility to reduc... Council bids to save historic seaside Winter Gardens Great Yarmouth Council is seeking an investor to run the UK's last surviving seaside Victorian cast iron and glass winter gardens. Aid agencies lack funding for North Korean food supply The United Nations World Food Programme said food supply remains precarious in North Korea due to funding shortfalls as donors are reluctant to provide aid. Trump replaces national security adviser McMaster with ex-ambassador US President Donald Trump is replacing national security adviser HR McMaster with John Bolton, a former US ambassador to the United Nations. The state of Congo The DRC is on the verge of a humanitarian crisis. The largest UN peacekeeping force in the world is now in political turmoil. But how did we get here? Yemenis trade accusations of breaking truce Yemenis have traded accusations over shelling reported in the lifeline port city of Hodeidah after a truce came into effect. But the United Nations is bringing the warring sides together to discuss the next step - pulling their troops back. Humble pomegranates provide clues on to how to end Yemen's war-fuelled hunger The United Nations say the pomegranate - which was exported in huge quantities before the war - could help the Yemeni economy pick up in the midst of conflict. Saskia O'Donoghue reports Haley slams Russia over Salisbury attacks U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki Haley slammed Moscow on Thursday and joined France, Germany and Canada in supporting Britain's assessment that Russian officers were behind a nerve agent attack in March on a former Russian spy and his ... People in Brussels march for climate justice ahead of COP24 Belgians march for climate justice in Brussels, ahead of the United Nations' conference COP24, which kicks off in Poland. North, South Korea join hands to win UNESCO status for wrestling North and South Korea mark a new step in their reconciliation efforts as the United Nations culture organization UNESCO approves their joint bid for Korean wrestling to be recognised on the UN agency's Intangible Cultural Heritage list. The Fear That Has 1,000 Eyes: Cities in the Age of Terrorism Each recent terrorist attack has led to an increase in security: new laws, surveillance of individuals, trade and financial transactions, more cameras, biometric scanning, ever-expanding security architecture. When will the next attack take place? Yemen's Houthi movement to halt drone and missile attacks Yemen's Houthi movement said on Monday it was halting drone and missile attacks on Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and their Yemeni allies, responding to a demand from the United Nations. Military had 'genocidal intent' against Rohingya: UN Myanmar’s military carried out mass killings and gang rapes of Muslim Rohingya with “genocidal intent” and the commander-in-chief and five generals should be prosecuted for orchestrating the gravest crimes under law, U.N. investigators say on Monday. Achim Steiner: "The world won't improve on its own" "We are living in a political moment in which nationalism, protectionism, and withdrawal have become a great temptation," says the head of the United Nations Development Programme, Achim Steiner. Why is the US arming Turkey's enemies at its border? The YPG is linked to a group that both Turkey and the US consider a terrorist organisation. So why is the US arming and training 30,000 of them on Turkey's border with Syria? Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building. UN principles key in laws affecting Indigenous people: AFN chief Assembly of First Nations Chief Perry Bellegarde is urging Ottawa to incorporate "free, prior and informed" principles in legislation impacting Indigenous Peoples. Bellegarde spoke at the AFN's special assembly on Tuesday. Yemen 'a battleground for regional powers' The United Nations says conditions in Yemen are "catastrophic" after three years of conflict.
Lyse Doucet reports. Myanmar genocide against Rohingya is still 'ongoing' UN investigators released a report on Wednesday showing that Mynammar has continued its campaign of ""genocide"" against Rohingya Muslims staying in the country, and they urged the UN Security Council to push for justice.
#Rohingya #Myanmar #UN Trudeau on NAFTA, tariffs and Trump at UN General Assembly Justin Trudeau says Donald Trump has insisted repeatedly that punitive U.S. tariffs on Canadian steel and aluminum won’t be an issue under a new NAFTA deal. The prime minister spoke Wednesday at the United Nations General Assembly. Rohingya Muslim girl recounts harrowing escape from Myanmar's military Twelve-year-old Zohra Begum describes fleeing violence in Myanmar's Rakhine State, during a meeting with members of the U.N. Security Council in Bangladesh's Cox's Bazar. 'All Ghanaians will miss Kofi Annan' Ghanaians tell the BBC of their sadness at the death of their countryman, who became UN secretary-general Trump accuses China of 2018 election meddling U.S. President Donald Trump accused China of seeking to meddle in the Nov. 6 U.S. congressional elections on Wednesday, saying Beijing did not want his Republican Party to do well because of his pugnacious stance on trade. China immediately reject... UN unanimously demands 30-day ceasefire across Syria The UN Security Council has unanimously approved a resolution demanding a 30-day ceasefire across Syria "without delay" to deliver humanitarian aid to millions and evacuate the critically ill and wounded. U.S. withdraws from U.N. Human Rights Council The United States is out, walking away from yet another multilateral engagement. This time it's the United Nations Human Rights Council. Nathan Frandino has more. Russia's UN ambassador condemns airstrikes on Syria Russia's ambassador to the United Nations condemned the airstrikes by the United States, Britain and France "in the strongest terms" at the UN on Saturday.

Vasily Nebenzya told the Security Council that the United States and its allies continue t... Britain accuses Russia over nerve agent attack at UN meeting The UK's deputy ambassador to the United Nations called out Russia during a UN security meeting, claiming that the Kremlin is likely to be involved after not responding to questions about the Salisbury attack. Images of September Images taken by Reuters photographers around the world in September 2018, including the Mass Games in North Korea, Hurricane Florence, dramatic confirmation hearings for Brett Kavanaugh and the United Nations General Assembly. Produced by Canice L... The battle for Hodeida Videographic locating the port of Hodeida in Yemen. Efforts to end Yemen's devastating war picked up pace as the government and rebels edged closer to peace talks and Britain led a push at the UN Security Council for an immediate truce. UK blames Russia for Salisbury attack at UN summit Britain's UN ambassador raises the case of the poisoning of ex-spy Sergei Skripal at the UN Security Council, saying the UK Government has concluded the two men who carried out the attack are members of Russia's military intelligence service. Theresa May: Canada-style Brexit trade deal is 'not on the table' Prime Minister Theresa May said a Canada-style Brexit trade deal was "not on the table for the United Kingdom".

Mrs May made the comment during an interview with Sky News while on a trip to the United Nations General Assembly in New York. Former UN secretary general Kofi Annan dies at the age of 80 Kofi Annan, the former United Nations secretary general, has died at the age of 80. He served two terms as the head of the UN, with which he shared the Nobel Peace Prize in 2001. Kofi Annan's body returns to Ghana for state funeral The late Kofi Annan made his final journey home to Ghana on Monday where the former UN Secretary General's body will receive a state funeral on Thursday. North Korea continuing nuclear program - UN report North Korea has not stopped its nuclear and missile programs in violation of United Nations sanctions, according to a confidential U.N. report seen by Reuters on Friday. Rethinking the United Nations The UN has failed many times over the last few decades. We speak with experts to see how they think the organisation should change. Their ideas may surprise you. Spending a night on Mosul's frontline The United Nations says that the ongoing battle for Iraq's second city of Mosul could result in the worst humanitarian catastrophe in the war against so-called Islamic State. 'Our relationship went beyond politics' - Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest Mandela memories Zulu Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest memories of Nelson Mandela, on the fifth anniversary of Nelson Mandela's death. Was Mandela a hero or a 'sell-out'? The BBC asked young South Africans for their views on anti-apartheid icon Nelson Mandela. South African regulators ban colonisation spoof ad A satirical television ad depicting the journey of an African man as he colonises Europe has been banned in South Africa. Regulators said that colonialism is an issue "not open for humorous exploitation". #South African, #colonisation #Chicken Lic... South African musician performs during brain surgery A musician from South Africa played the guitar during brain surgery. Known as an awake craniotomy, the surgery is common practice to avoid affecting vital brain functions such as movement, vision and speech.
#SouthAfrica #BrainSurgery #AwakeCranio... 'Rainbow nation' is still a dream in South Africa With few prospects for the future, the freedom Nelson Mandela fought for has little to offer young people. Today's South Africa has many troubles, including a high proportion of people without jobs. UN Security Council members don shirts and kick ball as World Cup begins Diplomats from the world's most powerful nations set aside any differences they may have had, donned their national strip and posed for a remarkable photo to celebrate the start of the World Cup.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.