Kamva Somdyala Zimbabwe protests after a 150 percent fuel price increase People in Zimbabwe took to the streets in the main cities of Harare and Bulawayo to protest a massive fuel price hike announced by the government. #Zimbabwe #protest #fuel Zimbabweans in Cape Town protest outside their country's consulate over the recent fuel hikes. (Kamva Somdyala, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Protesting Zimbabweans in Cape Town want the consulate in the city's CBD to remain closed until the crisis in their country is resolved. The demonstrators gathered at the consulate on Thursday, calling for an end to the violence in their country, which was sparked by Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa's announcement of a record fuel and diesel hike last week. At least five people have been killed and dozens injured since protests started on Monday. "We are a country reeling under the dictatorship of Mnangagwa," said Tinashe Chifamba, Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) youth organiser. Fury as Zimbabwe doubles fuel prices Protesters took to the streets of the capital over the government's sudden fuel price increase. "We don’t know who our president is. We have the army in the streets killing people, while our president is in Russia, so who is running the country." Mnangagwa is currently on a trip to Russia to secure foreign investment for the country. In a statement released via social media, he called for calm and peace in Zimbabwe. READ: Zim internet restored, but partial social media blackout 'until further notice' Mnangagwa is also set to attend the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, next week. Chifamba said Mnangagwa’s assertion that he was looking to secure foreign investment for the country was a lie. "He [Mnangagwa] tells investors that we [Zimbabwe] are open for business. But what business is he talking about when he increases fuel and diesel by 150%? It has a knock-on effect on industry and business and salaries of the few that are still employed. "We have an economy that does not have consumers. Economic growth is in the negative. The GDP has gone down." The group was supported by the Socialist Revolutionary Workers Party (SRWP), who pledged their solidarity. "We are aware of the struggles of the people of Zimbabwe," said Ashley Fataar of the SRWP. "We cannot say, because it is happening across the border, it does not concern us. It does." Meanwhile, more than 600 people have been arrested in Zimbabwe.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.