Pieter du Toit Jurie Roux (Gallo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Jurie Roux and Stellenbosch University will go head to head in May this year over claims that the chief executive of the South African Rugby Union (SARU) possibly benefitted personally from seemingly misappropriated university funds. The university is claiming damages of more than R30m from Roux, who served as a senior director in the university’s finance department before he was appointed as SARU's CEO in 2013. He also served on the management of the university's rugby club for a decade. The details of the claim are contained in court papers filed in the Western Cape High Court in 2015. ALSO READ: SA rugby boss denies allegations of financial mismanagement at Maties Roux has denied that he acted inappropriately. Frikkie Erasmus, Roux's attorney, confirmed to News24 on Thursday that the High Court had set Monday, May 13, as a trial date. He said the two parties had been in contact and that they would iron out pre-trial issues in February. 'Misrepresented university funds' According to a report by audit firm KPMG, attached to a notice by the university lodged at the court in October 2017, Roux "misrepresented the university's funds (including by, without evidence of authorisation, reallocating reserves of the university for expenditure), entered into unauthorised agreements on behalf of the university, did not act in the best interests of the university, and potentially benefitted personally from university funds". The report – which was attached to the filing, giving notice that the university would be calling Roy Walligora, a KPMG director, as expert witness – states Roux could have benefitted from university funds through the payments of irregular bonuses. The report says that payments and bonuses were approved to a club rugby coach who was then asked by Roux to deposit an amount of R55 250 into his account. ALSO READ: Saru CEO: Report will damage my reputation Roux also allegedly used a software mechanism that did not leave an audit trail "and concealed the movement of funds" between accounts to which he had access. These movements "decreased the (university) council's reserves by R35.3m from 2002 to 2010", the report says. KPMG also made adverse findings against a friend and colleague of Roux, Chris de Beer, who also worked in the university's finance department and the rugby club. He was found to have channelled funds from Roux to irregularly funded bursaries and unused or old student fee accounts. De Beer has been dismissed by the university.  'That's hogwash!'- Pule Mabe on accusations of intimate relationship with former PA ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe, who is currently on leave from that role pending the outcome of the inquiry of sexual harassment claims, strongly denied claims that he and his former assistant had an intimate relationship of sorts in the past. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). WATCH: Suspects run for cover after heavy fire from security officers disrupts armed robbery Two Chinese nationals and their driver were robbed of R23 000 along the M2 near the Main Reef Road exit in Johannesburg on Tuesday. Charcoal challenge takes Facebook by storm posing the question: 'is it racist?' A bizarre new social media challenge that sees participants turning their heads black by inverting a bag of charcoal over their heads, has raised eyebrows online. WATCH: Two men who saved man from drowning on beach on New Year's Day say they aren't heroes Two young men put their own lives at risk to save a stranger from drowning on a Western Cape beach on New Year's Day. 
When Dewald van der Westhuizen (22)  and Hannes Swart (22) noticed a man in trouble, they swam to his aid, without thinking twice. WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Anti-racism protest shuts down Bronkhorstspruit During a protest against racism in Bronkhorstspruit on Tuesday, where the entire central business district of the small town was shut down, the ANC Youth League in Tshwane have made a call expropriate land belonging to racist farmers. WATCH: This 30-year-old family business is a school hotspot for Joburg families Gauteng schools open on Wednesday and parents are on the hunt for affordable school uniforms. WATCH: Trains collide at Mountain View station in Pretoria One person has been confirmed dead, while scores of others have been left injured following a train collision at Mountain View station, Pretoria on Tuesday morning.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.