Buks Viljoen, Correspondent (File, Getty Images/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The police's Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Investigations Unit has been called in to investigate the smoke inhalation injuries of a 17-year-old girl and her four-year-old sister from Kinross, near Secunda. According to police spokesperson Colonel Benjamin Bhembe, the teenager had an argument with her mother on Wednesday evening and allegedly poured a pot of boiling water over her mother. The mother sustained serious burn wounds on her right arm and chest and was taken to hospital for further treatment. ALSO READ: Man in court for arson, murder of 2 Limpopo businessmen When the police tried to enter the house, the teen allegedly held a knife to her sister's throat and threatened to kill her if anyone entered. It is alleged that she later poured flammable liquid over the furniture and set it alight, before going into the bedroom and hiding her sister in a cupboard. The fire brigade extinguished the blaze and, after searching the house, found the siblings in the cupboard. All three family members are in hospital. Bhembe said a case of arson and attempted murder was under investigation. He was unable to say what caused the argument between the teen and her mother.  WATCH: Police arrest KZN man who threatened to blow up office workers Police have arrested a KwaZulu-Natal man who threatened to blow up office workers with a bomb. WATCH: Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson emerges as 'kingpin of bribes' Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson has emerged as the absolute kingpin in the Bosasa empire of bribes, intimidation and cold hard cash. WATCH: Limpopo diesel thief drives off without paying R3 179 bill A white Ford Ranger bakkie was caught on CCTV camera making off with fuel worth R3 179, without paying a cent. WATCH: Burning tyres, logs and truck light up Howick sky KwaZulu-Natal police say the violent protest that forced the closure of the N3 in the vicinity of Howick in KZN Midlands on Thursday night was sparked by the arrest of community members who had allegedly invaded a private property in the area. WATCH: Langa residents loot hijacked, abandoned truck Residents in Langa took advantage of a hijacked truck in Cape Town on Wednesday after stealing goods from the abandoned vehicle. WATCH: CCTV footage of brazen robbery at Durban curry restaurant The Copper Chimney at the Chatsworth Centre, near Durban, was stormed and robbed by four men as the restaurant was closing up on Sunday night, East Coast Radio (ECR) reported.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.