Riaan Grobler One of the memes Gavin Watson posted on Twitter.  (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson has been on the wrong side of the news of late, especially since allegations of money-laundering, dodgy deals and bribing high-ranking government officials came to light following former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture last week. But thousands of kilometres away, in the UK, 45-year-old programmer and software developer Gavin Watson was dumbstruck after suddenly being tagged in Twitter posts meant for the controversial Eastern Cape businessman. LIVE: Agrizzi, Watson paid regular visits to Mokonyane's house, along with R50 000 #Statecaptureinquiry hears On January 18, he tweeted: "So apparently someone who has the same name as me has done something bad and now I'm getting trolled! How cool is that?!" Since he became aware of the allegations against his namesake, the UK-based Watson has been creating memes with the hashtag #NotTheRealGavinWatson, showing heaps of money as well as images from Eminem music videos, Monty Python sketches and Star Wars. Seemingly enjoying his newfound "infamy", Watson tweeted: "Literally my dream has come true... For years all I've wanted is to be confused with a really dodgy South African dude and now, it has come true!" He even offered to "sell" his Twitter handle to his South African namesake. "An alternative would be to sell this account to the other Gavin Watson for a modest fee... R1 000 000 sounds like a good price," he jokingly tweeted. Here are some of the tweets the UK-based Watson has posted: So apparently someone who has the same name as me has done something bad and now I'm getting trolled! How cool is that?!  pic.twitter.com/kdfuXfiNUt  pic.twitter.com/7o2ZS3lfKx  pic.twitter.com/Yv9yGIBSMb  I've just found even more of the stuff!! pic.twitter.com/zXBF8BEL1p  pic.twitter.com/3geIQik9Dn  pic.twitter.com/WyrCoPUMep  #nottherealgavinwatson pic.twitter.com/6RxlZx3pyk  pic.twitter.com/6Mkc8pJVR7  #nottherealgavinwatson pic.twitter.com/lWy0V5E07N  #nottherealgavinwatson pic.twitter.com/pUoa31Meor  Has it all blown over yet? #nottherealgavinwatson pic.twitter.com/23k2jVpXeS KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.