Siyabonga Dzimbili and Mahlohonolo Magadla Pitch Black Afro (PHOTO: GETTY IMAGES/GALLO IMAGES) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Pitch Black Afro, real name Thulani Ngcobo, has had his bail
hearing in the Johannesburg Magistrate's Court postponed to February 7 after his defence team failed to present
sufficient evidence to Magistrate Piet du Plessis. The rapper is facing charges of premeditated murder and
defeating the ends of justice after his wife Catherine "Trisha"
Modusane died at a Johannesburg bed and breakfast establishment on December 31, 2018. The hearing was originally scheduled for Wednesday, January 30, but was postponed to Thursday morning after prosecutor Mzamo Mathe
asked for a two-hour adjournment to go through an affidavit filed by Ngcobo's
lawyer, Meshack Maluleke, ahead of the bail application. Ngcobo, with his hair in cornrows and wearing a black
jacket, looked more reserved than at previous hearings where he would wave to
his mother before being seated. This time the rapper didn't make eye contact
with her. At the start of the proceedings, Mathe asked that images of
the deceased not be published as they are graphic and will cause emotional
distress to the family. Evidence He also asked that the prosecution present evidence in
private as it might jeopardise the case of the accused if this evidence is made
public. Ngcobo's defence team wasn't against the motion and the
courtroom was cleared for the presentation of evidence. When the public returned the defence argued that the
prosecution didn't have enough evidence that the murder was premeditated as
premeditation requires planning. They also put forward that the deceased may
have sustained her injuries before returning to the B&B and that Ngcobo
hadn't noticed his wife's injuries as he was intoxicated. Magistrate Piet Du Plessis said the post-mortem indicates
that the cause of death was unnatural and said that if the defence is arguing
that his suspect didn't commit the crime then they should present evidence that
outweighs the evidence of the prosecution to persuade the court to acquit their
client. Du Plessis then postponed the case to February 7. The magistrate also denied an application by photographers
who wanted to take photographs of Ngcobo. Should anyone be found taking
pictures, he said, they would be held in contempt of court. Ngcobo's family refused to speak to the media after the
proceedings. WATCH Hundreds of flamingo chicks admitted to SANCCOB for life-saving rehabilitation Over 2 000 abandoned and distressed flamingo chicks were jetted all over South Africa this week as part of a series of mercy flights from Kimberley after their habitat came under threat due to water problems. WATCH: Joburg security guard wounded in shootout with armed robbery suspects A security guard was shot and wounded as he investigated a suspected business robbery on the corner of Prichard and Mooi Streets in Johannesburg last Saturday afternoon. WATCH: House robbers make off with goods, cash worth R200 000 A family locked themselves in a room while a gang of house robbers in Johannesburg helped themselves to goods valued at R200 000 in a matter of minutes. South African archaeologists find "lost city" using laser technology Researchers used cutting edge laser technology to recreate an ancient city that existed near Johannesburg from the 15th century until about 200 years ago. 3 Days to Go: Johannesburg Premiere The 3 Days to Go Johannesburg premiere took place at Ster-Kinekor, Sandton City and audiences couldn't get enough of the stars on the red carpet. This Limpopo bush lodge proves why a lux poolside experience is the best Palala Boutique Game Lodge and Spa in Limpopo is a 4-hour drive from Johannesburg, nestled near the Botswana border. WATCH: 'Unruly' passenger forcibly removed from Kulula flight A passenger was forcibly removed from a Kulula flight bound for Johannesburg from Durban on Sunday night. WATCH: Damage to 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard a criminal act – DA The DA has called the damage inflicted on its newly unveiled 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, a 'criminal act'. WATCH: 'ANC is killing us' - DA unveils billboard listing names of Marikana, Life Esidimeni victims DA leaders and supporters marched on Wednesday to unveil a new giant billboard in Johannesburg. WATCH: Morningside driver outsmarts would-be hijackers A Johannesburg motorist escaped an attempted hijacking outside a complex in Morningside. WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg. WATCH: Suspects run for cover after heavy fire from security officers disrupts armed robbery Two Chinese nationals and their driver were robbed of R23 000 along the M2 near the Main Reef Road exit in Johannesburg on Tuesday. WATCH: This 30-year-old family business is a school hotspot for Joburg families Gauteng schools open on Wednesday and parents are on the hunt for affordable school uniforms. WATCH: Queuing won't guarantee university admission The University of Johannesburg is urging prospective students to register online Instead of queuing on campus. Johannesburg's grandest old colonial club seeks new image With its imposing columned facade, hunting trophies and oil portraits, the Rand Club in Johannesburg's city centre is a relic of South Africa's colonial and apartheid past. But Alicia Thompson, a black woman born in Johannesburg, is seeking to rep... WATCH: Train up in flames in Mayfair Two carriages of a passenger train caught fire at Mayfair Station, west of Johannesburg on Sunday. WATCH: Leeuwkop prison surprise raid: Dagga, shanks and cellphones found On Thursday morning the Department of Correctional Services executed a surprise raid at Leeuwkop prison in Johannesburg, catching inmates off guard and revealing their illicit possessions. WATCH: Door of Hope: A new beginning for abandoned babies The Door of Hope organisation has taken care of more than 1500 children since it was established in 1999.

One of the ways they take in children is through the "baby bin" - a hole in the wall were parents can leave their unwanted babies. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. WATCH: Timol family allowed to intervene in Rodrigues stay of prosecution bid The legal representatives of late struggles activists, Ahmed Timol and Dr Hoosen Haffejee appeared at the Gauteng high court in Johannesburg on Wednesday. WATCH. WATCH: Mickey Mouse gets an African makeover in time for his 90th birthday Iconic Disney character Mickey Mouse has been given a makeover, African style - and it's in time for his 90th birthday. 'Ek is wenperd vir 2019-verkiesing' - Hlaudi Hlaudi Motsoeneng, voorheen bedryfshoof van die SAUK het Donderdag sy nuwe politieke party, African Content Movement (ACM) by die Garden Court Milpark hotel in Johannesburg bekendgestel. WATCH: Artist Ayanda Mabulu arrested over 'blame it on the boers' painting Controversial artist Ayanda Mabulu, 37, was arrested outside the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) on Wednesday, following a display of his artwork stating, "blame it on the boers". WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. VIDEO | Festive blitz: 11 Joburg nightclubs raided during late night police operation Eleven places of entertainment were raided in the Johannesburg inner city on Tuesday night as part of the Buya Mthetho campaign. WATCH: Chinese national shot and wounded, cash stolen in Johannesburg A Chinese national was shot and wounded and cash stolen out of his vehicle when several armed robbers pounced on his car south of Johannesburg yesterday. WATCH: Police threaten to slap man for filming pulled over Lamborghini A resident of Daveyton on the East Rand was threatened by Ekurhuleni metro police on Sunday after he stopped to film footage of a green Lamborghini that had been pulled over by officers. WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. Grave dilemma: S.African cities short of cemetery space In Johannesburg, land is a hot topic, even for the dead. Population growth, migration to urban areas and an influx of foreigners has put huge pressure on land in urban areas. Adding to the problem is a cultural resistance to the practice of cremat... WATCH: Motorist escapes hijacking, reverses into assailants' car Police are on the hunt for four men who were involved in a botched hijacking in the north of Johannesburg, last week. WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg. WATCH: Quick-thinking motorist leaves hijackers empty-handed A video of a failed hijacking attempt in Johannesburg has surfaced on social media on Tuesday. WATCH: CCTV emerges of Sasol garage chaos as thugs target Global Citizens concertgoers What was supposed to be an exciting ending to a day filled with international entertainment, turned out to be a horrific ordeal for concertgoers outside the FNB Stadium in Johannesburg on Sunday evening. WATCH: Celebs walk the red carpet at Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 Local and international celebrities took to the red carpet at the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.