Jenni Evans Enkanini Primary School (Jenni Evans, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories More than 600 children are still waiting for a place at Khayelitsha's Enkanini Primary School, which is already bursting at the seams with the sheer number of children who want to attend it. In fact, demand for a place is so high that a large group of parents and unplaced children picketed outside the school on Thursday morning. The rapidly expanding informal settlement near the school stretches almost as far as the road to the N2 highway. News24 reported last year on a new wave of residents moving in from backyards, or out of their parental homes. The children at Thursday's picket were dressed in their grey shorts and white shirts – ready to start the long haul to matric. "There is no school today," said chairperson of the school governing body (SGB), Andile Lili. Wearing a jacket and buttoned-up shirt, the man infamously known for "poo flinging" episodes in the Western Cape, who is now a ward councillor, said residents had protested for a school since 2013. In April 2018, pre-fabricated classrooms finally arrived and teaching began for 560 pupils. However, demand soared because thousands of residents live there now – some in shacks precariously perched on top of the dunes. The principal and governing body will focus on putting emergency measures in place with extra desks.    This will be taken to the education department in the hope of getting more help. "But we can't keep children at home forever," said Lili. In his hand was a list of 673 children – from Grade R to Grade 7 – who have been waiting for a place. A room originally meant to have been the staff room, will be divided in two for the Grade Rs so that there are 33 children on one side of the room and 33 on the other. WATCH: Land occupiers sell plots for a pittance in Cape Town A storeroom meant for tins of pilchards and bags of rice, will now double as the staff room. Comment was not immediately available from the Western Cape education department. Education MEC Debbie Schafer said at the beginning of the school year that more than 1.2 million pupils started school in the Western Cape, many for the first time. This year, primary schools across the province have welcomed 108 325 Grade 1s and 83 360 Grade 8s. A final head count is expected within the next few days and extra teachers who are being kept in reserve will be sent to schools where they are needed.  WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral. WATCH: Cape pupil awarded for matriculating after surviving deadly fire Lance Minnies came close to losing his life in a deadly 2016 fire and almost gave up on his studies when he recovered. But it was the hope for a better future and the support of caring people at his school that pulled him through. WATCH: Grade 1 pupil gets ready for big school Starting Grade 1 is a big step for little ones. For Luca (6), getting ready for school took quite some time on Wednesday morning, but he soon got into the swing of things. From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg. WATCH: This 30-year-old family business is a school hotspot for Joburg families Gauteng schools open on Wednesday and parents are on the hunt for affordable school uniforms. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.