Kamva Somdyala Fire on slopes of mountain in Betty's Bay (Credit: Willem Law) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Overstrand municipality has approved more than R9m in "unforeseen and unavoidable expenditure", which was not provided for in the 2018/2019 budget, due to fires in the region over the past couple of months. The approval was announced by Mayor Dudley Coetzee at a special council meeting this week. READ: Betty's Bay blaze: Wind, terrain hampering efforts to put out fire Several fires have broken out in the region since last year in areas like Hermanus, Hawston, Fisherhaven and Betty's Bay. WATCH: Betty's Bay fire victim shares heartbreaking experience of the blaze A Betty's Bay resident has spoken out about the trauma of losing her home in a fire that raged through the town at the weekend. "The fire season for the period to date proved to be extreme, posing a serious financial challenge for the municipality, for our own staff for overtime payment, for vehicle fuel costs, as well as for external resources obtained to ensure that the municipality had the necessary capacity to deal with these abnormal circumstances," Coetzee told council. Coetzee also told council that the figure of R9m was an estimate at this stage and may well increase. The man accused of starting the New Year's Day fire in Betty's Bay, Sheldon April, is expected to appear in the Caledon Magistrate's Court on Friday for a bail application. He faces several charges, including contravening the National Environmental Management Act. He faces up to 20 years in jail. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Bitcoin Gospel Is bitcoin the blueprint for a bankless currency or the biggest pyramid scheme in history? Is it the alternative to a failing finance sector, or are we simply shifting power from today's banking elite to a new online elite? WATCH: At least 31 houses destroyed in Overstrand wildfires; video shows devastation in Betty's Bay At least 31 houses have been completely destroyed and 28 partially damaged by wildfires on the coastal Overstrand region in the Western Cape. Midway raises $3.15 million from SPP 17 Oct 2018 - Woodfibre company Midway (ASX:MWY) closed the offer period of its share purchase plan announced on Friday, 12 October 2018, raising approximately $3.15 million. Who's eating all the 'acorn pigs'? Jamon iberico is one of the world's most expensive cured hams, costing hundreds of dollars, and demand from China is pushing prices up further. 'High input costs dent profits' Operational costs lowering again due to fuel prices cooling off, 
diesel accounts for 65% of operational cost, says Bal Malkit Singh, 
Chairman, AIMTC. Comet Ridge signs an agreement with Synterra Technologies 21 Nov 2018 - Comet Ridge (ASX:COI) as the operator of the Galilee Basin Deeps Joint Venture has signed an agreement with Synterra Technologies to acquire 300-420 km of new 2D seismic across the Galilee Basin. Steady Q2 for JSPL Reasonably strong Q2 despite seasonal weakness due to monsoon; ramp up in Angul production, cost management lead to steady Q2. Company unveils its autonomous delivery vehicle An american company has unveiled a self-driving vehicle named Nuro, the fully autonomous vehicle reshapes "the cost structure of goods transportation" Record harvest a problem for Polish apple growers Poland's apple harvest, a record in the country's history, is worrying fruit growers. The harvest's projected four and a half million tonnes will mean an oversupply of apples, with prices too low to cover production costs. Julian Satterthwaite rep... High Fuel Prices, Currency Takes  A Toll Average ATF costs were 40% higher than usual costs in Q2, total impact of currency depreciation at Rs 3.4 Bn, says Rohit Philip, CFO, IndiGo. Viva Energy $66.7 million write down 19 Nov 2018 - Viva Energy Group (ASX:VEA) revised its EBITDA forecasts for the 2018 financial year from its refining business, down from $216.7 million to approximately $150 million. 'The fire was higher than the roof here'- Hermanus farmer "Camphill, you've got 30 minutes until that fire is on you." These were the chilling words that came through as a Hermanus farm community, housing 54 intellectually disabled patients, was forced to evacuate. WATCH:  Fire rages out of control near Hermanus Firefighters from the Overstrand Municipality have spent the last 24 hours fighting an out of control fire about 10km from Hermanus in the Western Cape. Most expensive iPhone ever goes on sale in the UK The launch of the iPhone X has been greeted by large crowds outside Apple's Regent Street store in London. The new phone contains facial recognition technology for the first time and is also the first iPhone to house an edge-to-edge screen. Centaur Resources (ASX:CR3) to list on ASX 04 Oct 2018 - Centaur Resources Limited (ASX:CR3) Managing Director & CEO, Brian Clifford talks about its Argentinian lithium development project, Lobo Blanco, timelines and IPO. Grieving dad sends son's ashes into space After a promising aeronautical engineer had a fatal crash on the last day of his apprenticeship, his grieving dad made a fitting tribute - by launching 22-year-old Jamie Ottaway's  ashes into space. Macmahon settles historic class action 04 Oct 2018 - Underground mining company Macmahon Holdings (ASX:MAH) has reached an agreement to settle the class action proceedings that started against them in the Federal Court of Australia in November 2015. IKEA drops its prices even lower in India debut IKEA is looking to keep prices even lower in India than it typically does elsewhere when it opens its first store in the country on Thursday, overcoming high taxes on imported goods as it woos cost-conscious shoppers unaccustomed to DIY furniture. Laserbond (ASX:LBL) surface engineering specialist 19 Oct 2018 - Laserbond (ASX:LBL) CEO Wayne Hooper talks FY18 results, how its technology reduces down-time and replacement costs on expensive machinery for a range of industries, long term licensing revenue and FY19 outlook. Kim Kardashian West's shockingly expensive skincare regime Kim Kardashian West's basic skincare regime costs $4,500 and includes everything from the pricey Guerlain Serum to the more affordably priced Bio Oil. WATCH: 'Small meteor' lights up Cape night sky Social media was ablaze with talk about a meteor that lit up the Western Cape sky in loud, fiery fashion on Wednesday. 
One lucky farmer managed to capture the meteor on CCTV camera. The court dismissed the case before we even got here - Zwelihle protesters A charge of crimen injuria was withdrawn against Hermanus land activist Gcobani Ndzongana on Friday, but he will have to remain in custody for his trial in another matter. Canucks head coach: No rush to name a captain Vancouver Canucks head coach Travis Green says becoming the captain of an NHL team is a “huge responsibility.” The team is currently without a captain after Henrik Sedin retired at the end of last season. Canucks fans say goodbye to Daniel and Henrik Sedin Twin brothers Daniel and Henrik Sedin took to the ice for their final home game in Vancouver Thursday night. Fans look back on their favourite moments from their careers. Amcor reiterated outlook, uptick in plastics 11 Oct 2018 - Amcor (ASX:AMC) is holding its Annual General Meeting today, saying it is on track to close for to close the Bemis combination to create a global leading packaging firm in the 1Q 2019 and it maintained its outlook. The costs of US wars after 9/11 attacks The 9/11 attacks killed nearly 3,000 people in one day, but the costs of US wars since then have been a lot higher. #9/11 #September11 #USwars 'We tried to kill each other' In Lebanon, a group of former fighters show the cost of civil war. Royal wedding: Should costs fall on taxpayers? The wedding could cost taxpayers more than GBP30m. Zenitas Healthcare completes Allied Care Group settlement 03 Oct 2018 - Following the announcement on 17 September 2018, Zenitas Healthcare (ASX:ZNT) is pleased to announce that settlement of the acquisition of Allied Care Group has been completed. Barclays hit despite near trebling of Q2 profits Barclays nearly trebles profits from a year ago in its first quarter with, the Bank says, 'no significant litigation or conduct charges ... for some time'.  Its shares surge on the news before falling into the red. SCA Property Group raises $262.4 million 04 Oct 2018 - SCA Property Group (ASX:SCP) completed the fully underwritten institutional placement announced yesterday raising $262.4 million. WATCH: Overstrand fire rages on Air support has been brought in to battle a large fire in the Overstrand area in the Western Cape. The fire has devastated areas close to Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.