Ntwaagae Seleka Menzi Primary School. (Deon Raath, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Four Cameroonian nationals who were arrested for allegedly robbing the newly opened state-of-the-art Menzi Primary School in Ekurhuleni, will have to wait until next month to apply for bail. Ernest Khan Awasi, 36, Hyaginth Cho Mulul, 29, Fan Terrance Bonung, 24, and Fonga Muama Mohammed, 40 - appeared briefly in the Johannesburg Magistrate's Court on Tuesday. During their first appearance in court last week, the State asked for a postponement so that the men's legal status in South Africa could be verified. It emerged then that Mulul's papers had expired and that Mohammed did not possess any relevant travel documents. While Awasi and Bonung were in possession of the necessary documents, the State wanted to verify the authenticity of their papers. However, it emerged on Tuesday that Mohammed's papers had expired and that his three co-accused possessed legal papers. Ekurhuleni police arrested the men on January 18 during an intelligence-driven operation. Equipment, believed to have been stolen from the school, was recovered on Friday at a store in Johannesburg. The primary school was robbed just a week after education MEC Panyaza Lesufi opened the R105m facility and asked Tsakane residents to look after it. READ: Case postponed to probe legal status of suspects It is alleged that on January 15,  the men entered the school premises in the early hours of the morning and found two security guards, tied them up and locked them in the strong rooms. They then allegedly broke the main vault door to access the keys of the entire school and headed to the administration block and IT offices, where tablets were charging. Items that were stolen included 185 tablets, eight laptops, two projectors, three desktop computers, a plasma TV and R500 in petty cash. READ: 4 suspects arrested in connection with robbery at state-of-the-art Menzi Primary School According to the police, 22 tablets and three laptops were recovered when the four men were arrested. The men are expected back in court on February 5 for their formal bail application.  One of the suspects in the Menzi Primary School robbery being led away by the police.Johannesburg – The four men alleged to have... https://t.co/HNDcu5J5U4 pic.twitter.com/34XWLuSwOz  #SADTU Gauteng commends the law enforcement agencies and the contribution of Tsakane community for the apprehension of suspects linked to the stealing of equipment at Menzi Primary school. @SAPoliceService @EducationGP @SadtuNational @eNCA @ewnreporter @KayaNews @jozifm @Fin24 pic.twitter.com/TemyRWveAx   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.