Buks Viljoen, Correspondent White rhino calf with mother. (Photo: Henk Kruger/ ANA) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories At least five animals, including a giraffe and a white rhino, have been killed in a freak accident after an Eskom pylon collapsed in the Kruger National Park near Skukuza over the weekend. The animals were electrocuted when the pylon fell during a heavy storm on Friday night in the southern part of the park, exposing a live wire. The downed electrical cable was discovered when Eskom teams were called out to sort out a power failure at the Skukuza camp. While inspecting the powerline, Eskom workers discovered a lion feeding on the carcass of a dead rhino. SANParks spokesperson Ike Phaahle said the section rangers were called in to drive the lion away, so that the live powerline, which was lying on the ground, could be repaired. During further inspection, rangers found a dead giraffe, two hyenas and a lion close to the rhino carcass. It is suspected that the giraffe was electrocuted, and that the lion and hyenas were killed by live cable while trying to feed on the carcass. The rhino's horns were removed and taken in for safekeeping at a secret storage facility in Skukuza where all other horns are kept. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   Leopard plays with baby duiker before the inevitable kill At Kruger National Park, a baby duiker was pinned down by a leopard, then licked and cuddled before it tried escaping. Buffalo attempts to rescue baby elephant from lion's mouth In a rare show of bravery, a herd of buffalo tried to save a baby elephant from a pride of hungry lions. The video shows the lions on top of the upturned calf, trying to kill it. A herd of buffalo from a nearby watering hole heard the commotion. Awkward! Three male lions take turns mating with lioness This lioness's milkshake brought all the boy lions to the yard. This is a video of a lioness having a mating party with three male lions - each taking turns and bumping the other away in an almost playful manner. Two cute lion cubs make adorable debut at Vladisovstok zoo A in the Russia’s Far East Vladivostok received two adorable white lion cubs. The rare cubs arrived from Belarus and now are nursed by the zoo’s workers. Due to the rarity of the white lions, the babies have weak immune system and fed every two ho... Lion kills young worker at North Carolina wildlife sanctuary A lion at a North Carolina private wildlife sanctuary fatally mauled a 22-year-old worker on Sunday before being shot and killed by local law enforcement. Sanbona family safari: A lesson in all manner of animal poop, they're unlikely to forget In this special tract of the little Karoo it is all about the conservation of the animals - including the rare white lion. Ferocious Lion Fight An animal invader got a lion-sized left-hook from its rival. Mongoose refuses to be lion cubs' chew toy While the young lions seem to be enjoying themselves, the mongoose is not having too much fun. Lion calls squad to show hyenas who's the boss of the bush This lion's pride definitely had her back when she was cornered by a group of hyenas trying to steal her kill. It was captured on video in Kruger National Park by 19-year-old student Amber Soames and shared by Latest Sightings. Disney releases Lion King trailer The first trailer of Disney's live-action 'Lion King' remake has been released. Male lion ruins lionesses' hunt of a warthog This male lion was a little too eager for some warthog hamburgers after he bungled the hunt of two lionesses, who probably had a growl or two to say to him afterwards.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.