Sarah Evans The man who was arrested for killing his wife on Saturday.  (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 42-year-old man is in custody on suspicion of killing his wife, who was found buried in a shallow grave near their home in Randfontein, Johannesburg. He was arrested on Saturday. Police spokesperson Captain Solomon Sibiya told News24 on Sunday that the woman was found wrapped in a sheet, and the cause of her death is not yet known. She was buried on the couple's plot, near the house where she lived with her husband. Sibiya said the police suspect that she could have been dead for up to two weeks, as her neighbours said they last saw her a fortnight ago. City of Johannesburg MMC for Public Safety, Michael Sun, said the arrest was a joint effort between the Johannesburg Metro Police Department and SAPS K9 units, and other SAPS units. Just received report that a man allegedly killed his wife & buried her in a shallow grave on his Randfontein plot was arrested in a joint effort by #JMPDK9, NCI, SAPS Flying Sqd & SAPS K9 JHB. The body was found & exhumed, suspect detained at Randfontein SAPS. pic.twitter.com/RNRrGK02yX  According to Sibiya, police found the body during the course of an investigation into the husband's alleged possession of an unlicensed firearm. The police received information about the firearm via their intelligence networks, said Sibiya. The suspect will appear in court on Monday. Fail: man tries to steal bike from police station Ignoring a big sign and a surveillance camera, a man attempts to steal a bicycle from outside an Oregon police station.  He doesn't get very far. WATCH: Chinese national shot and wounded, cash stolen in Johannesburg A Chinese national was shot and wounded and cash stolen out of his vehicle when several armed robbers pounced on his car south of Johannesburg yesterday. WATCH: No injuries or fatalities in South African factory fire Johannesburg emergency services spent hours trying to contain a fire that broke out in a glue and paper factory in Kya Sands, Johannesburg, on Wednesday morning. Video shows struggle between fugitive, officer Video footage taken before the fatal shooting of a Pennsylvania man by a suburban Chicago police officer shows a struggle with the armed man who was wanted in the death of another man. Norwegian real-estate tycoon's wife kidnapped The wife of a wealthy Norwegian businessman has gone missing in a rare suspected kidnapping, and her family has reportedly received a $10,000,000 ransom demand to be paid in cryptocurrency. WATCH: Limpopo diesel thief drives off without paying R3 179 bill A white Ford Ranger bakkie was caught on CCTV camera making off with fuel worth R3 179, without paying a cent. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. WATCH: Shady character steals designer sunglasses A thief with sticky fingers was able to steal two pairs of designer sunglasses from an optical store in Johannesburg last Friday. Grave dilemma: S.African cities short of cemetery space In Johannesburg, land is a hot topic, even for the dead. Population growth, migration to urban areas and an influx of foreigners has put huge pressure on land in urban areas. Adding to the problem is a cultural resistance to the practice of cremat... VIDEO | Festive blitz: 11 Joburg nightclubs raided during late night police operation Eleven places of entertainment were raided in the Johannesburg inner city on Tuesday night as part of the Buya Mthetho campaign. Scraps and squatters litter ancient Jewish burial site in India A Jewish cemetery in the eastern Indian city of Vadodara which dates back to 1875 has become a dumping ground for locals, although authorities say they have plans to clean it up. WATCH | JHB crime stats: Drunk driving remains the city's most frequently recorded offence Drunk driving remains the highest offence in Johannesburg, according to the metro police latest statistics. WATCH: Joburg security guard wounded in shootout with armed robbery suspects A security guard was shot and wounded as he investigated a suspected business robbery on the corner of Prichard and Mooi Streets in Johannesburg last Saturday afternoon. VIDEO FROM THE SCENE: Three men injured in apparent hostage drama at Randfontein church A man was shot and two others were injured while trying to escape an alleged hostage situation at a church in Randfontein, Johannesburg.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.