Alex Mitchley A group of Zimbabwean people protesting outside Zimbabwe's embassy in Pretoria. (Alex Mitchley/News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Brandishing a poster reading: "The untold suffering of Zimbabweans", a group of around 100 protesters demonstrated outside Zimbabwe's embassy in Pretoria on Wednesday morning. The demonstrators gathered outside the embassy to protest over the treatment of their countrymen by the government, police and the army since the start of a widespread general strike on Monday. The strike was sparked by the Zimbabwean government's announcement last week of record petrol and diesel price hikes. Zimbabwe President Emmerson Mnangagwa flew to Russia on a state visit soon after the announcement was made. He is yet to return to the country. At least five people have been killed in the protests since Monday. Zimbabwe protests after a 150 percent fuel price increase People in Zimbabwe took to the streets in the main cities of Harare and Bulawayo to protest a massive fuel price hike announced by the government. #Zimbabwe #protest #fuel On Tuesday, government ordered the total shutdown of all internet services. A man protesting outside the embassy in Pretoria told News24 of the tough conditions his family was facing. "I just spoke to my family. They are being held hostage in their homes. No one can go out to buy more food," the man, who wanted to remain anonymous, said. "If they are seen on the street they are being shot at or they are being abused." Call for action from AU, UN Another man who spoke to News24 on condition of anonymity called on President Cyril Ramaphosa to intervene in the chaos. "The whole of South Africa has turned a blind eye. They are saying Zimbabweans must solve their own problems. Mnangagwa must go. We want Mnangagwa to stop killing people," said the man. He also called for action from the African Union and United Nations to stop the ruling Zanu-PF party. On Wednesday morning, the Department of International Relations and Cooperation (Dirco) said the government had "noted protest action in Zimbabwe" and was monitoring the situation. In a tweet posted to its Twitter account, it said "consultations are taking place between diplomats".  “The South African Government has noted protest action in Zimbabwe & is monitoring the situation. Consultations are taking place between diplomats. we’re confident measures being taken by the Zimbabwean Government will resolve the situation” Ndivhuwo Mabaya @DIRCO_ZA spokesperson  Chesmail Jasi said he couldn't just watch while the authorities "are killing our brothers". Jasi added: "We are ready to go back to Zimbabwe. I'm here to fight for this generation. Without a fight this generation will die 1% at a time."   Police detain leading Zimbabwe activist after protests Leading Zimbabwean activist Evan Mawarire is detained by police, taken from his house in a widening crackdown after anti-government protests. Zimbabwe: streets of Harare empty after deadly demonstrations The streets of Zimbabwe's capital, Harare, are deserted after demonstrations against a government hike in fuel prices turned violent. Fury as Zimbabwe doubles fuel prices Protesters took to the streets of the capital over the government's sudden fuel price increase. Fuel price hike sparks protests in Zimbabwe Police have used teargas as anger over a fuel price hike in Zimbabwe, and over the wider economic crisis, spilled onto the streets. Fuel hike sparks protests in Zimbabwe Demonstrations erupt in the Zimbabwean capital of Harare to protest against the sharp rise in fuel prices ordered by the government, in the midst of a severe economic crisis. David Warner 'suggested' ball-tampering - Cameron Bancroft Cameron Bancroft has revealed David Warner was the one to suggest he should tamper with the ball during Australia's notorious Test match in South Africa that saw him handed a nine-month ban. Bancroft's attempt to manipulate the ball in Cape Town w... Zimbabwe's ruling ZANU-PF part holds annual conference Zimbabwe's ruling ZANU-PF part holds annual conference  in Esigodini with a speech from President Emmerson Mnangagwa. Mngxitama volhard met sy standpunt om wit mense dood te maak. Andile Mngxitama sê hy het reeds met militêre veterane van Zimbabwe gepraat en dat hulle ingestem het om lede van BLF op te lei. Lithium Consolidated (ASX:LI3) hard rock lithium focus 05 Dec 2018 - Lithium Consolidated Limited (ASX:LI3) CEO, Shanthar Pathmanathan talks about the company's focus on hard rock lithium in Zimbabwe and Mozambique and plans to start small scale mining in 2019. Zimbabwe opposition party demonstration draws thousands Thousands of anti-government demonstrators march through Harare in the first rally since a deadly crackdown on an election protest in August. Many protestor showed their support for the MDC (Movement for Democratic Change) party leader Nelson Cham... Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Zimbabweans reflect one year after Mugabe resignation As the country prepares to mark one year since then-president Robert Mugabe stepped down, Zimbabweans reflect on the expectations they had as the nonagenarian strongman's 37-year hold on power came to end, but say the change they hoped for has not... Lives at risk as drug prices soar in crisis-hit Zimbabwe Since starting treatment five years ago, 50-year-old Alice Chenyika kept her blood pressure under control by adhering to doctors' strict instructions to take two daily doses of nifedipine. Now Zimbabwe's worsening economic crisis has pushed prices... Zimbabwe bus gas blast kills at least 42 At least 42 passengers die in Zimbabwe after a suspected gas cylinder explosion on a bus. The vehicle was travelling from Zvishavane to the Beitbridge crossing via the town of Filabusi when the explosion happened. WATCH: Ramaphosa calls on EU to lift sanctions still in place against Zimbabwe Zimbabwe was on the agenda in talks President Cyril Ramaphosa had with European Union (EU) leaders on Thursday. The Wonder of Rwanda Kigali is joining the ranks of start-up cities in Africa alongside Lagos, Nairobi and Cape Town. A new start-up center has just opened there. What are a South African? Cape Town-based Wine Flies in South Africa is offering a new tour that dives into what makes up the identity of a South African through history, heritage and cuisine. WATCH: Eyewitness account of Zimbabwe attack August 1 Zim massacre Horrors from the frontline: On August 01, 2018, my life changed entirely in ways I had not imagined when I woke up that day. A part of me died, while a new me was born out of the horrors I filmed, right from the frontline. Village in the city tries to save Zimbabwe traditions Children entering a hut in a suburb of Zimbabwe's capital gaze in wonder at objects foreign to them -- ancient farm tools, pottery, even the grass roof and reed mats on which they are asked to sit. A bespectacled elderly woman claps her hands to g... How Park Bench Grannies Are Tackling Depression More than 300 million people suffer from depression globally. Could this groundbreaking mental health programme in Zimbabwe be a solution for the rest of the world? The spirit medium that inspired Mugabe Nehanda Nyakasikana led the fight against British colonisers in Zimbabwe in the 19th Century. Turmoil in Zimbabwe as new tax forces rush on goods The effects of a new tax on money transfers is taking hold in Zimbabwe. The new levy imposed last week has been met by public outcry. Finance minister Mthuli Ncube said last week the 2 percent tax would be used for roads and the health and educati... WATCH: Temperatures to increase after parts of SA experience heavy rain and snowfall South Africans in eastern regions of the country were forced to pack away their shorts and sandals because of icy temperatures. Watch the video above to see snowy scenes across South Africa. SNTV meets defender Hardlife Zvirekwi who plays despite hand amputation Zimbabwe defender Hardlife Zvirekwi talked to SNTV about the challenges he faced in his remarkable return to professional football despite suffering hand amputation. Zimbabwe declares state of emergency after cholera outbreak Zimbabwe will be banning all public gatherings in its capital due to a cholera outbreak that has claimed the lives of at least 21 people. Around 3,000 people have been infected, according to the health ministry. #Zimbabwe #Cholera #Disease Forex: emerging markets bounce back, but more turbulence ahead? Turkey's lira and South Africa's rand have bounced back after suffering hefty losses earlier in the week.  But, together with the rouble and Argentina's peso, they are still roiled by a swathe of economic crises across emerging markets. South Africans confront a gloomy economic outlook South Africa's economy has entered recession for the first time since 2009, dealing a blow to President Cyril Ramaphosa's economic reform agenda. British PM dances with school children during visit to South Africa British Prime Minister Theresa May danced with students in Cape Town during the first leg of her visit to Africa, a trip she hopes will boost trade ties ahead of Brexit. Theresa May dances with schoolchildren on South Africa trip Theresa May dances with schoolchildren from ID Mkize Senior Secondary on a visit to Cape Town. Zimbabwe's Mnangagwa is sworn in Emmerson Mnangagwa is sworn in as president three weeks after being declared the winner of a controversial election that U.S. election observers have criticized. Opposition challenges Zimbabwe election in court Zimbabwe's main opposition leader, Nelson Chamisa, filed a court challenge on Friday against President Emmerson Mnangagwa's election victory, halting Mnangagwa's inauguration that had been due on Sunday. Zimbabwe police arrest senior opposition leader Biti at Zambian border Zimbabwe's former finance minister and opposition politician Tendai Biti has been detained by police while trying to cross into Zambia to seek asylum. Senior opposition figure arrested at Zimbabwe border Senior opposition politician and former Zimbabwean finance minister Tendai Biti is arrested in the aftermath of last week's disputed election result. LCME (ASX:LI3) talks hard rock lithium 07 August 2018 - Lithium Consolidated Mineral Exploration Limited (ASX:LI3) CEO, Shanthar Pathmanathan talks about its portfolio and growth plans including new exploration assets in in Zimbabwe and Mozambique. Zimbabwe's president calls for unity after elections Zimbabwe's president calls from unity in the aftermath of a divisive election. Zimbabwe police disrupt election news conference The turmoil surrounding Zimbabwe's disputed election took another turn when riot police temporarily broke up a news conference called by opposition leader Nelson Chamisa. But the election's apparent victor, President Emmerson Mnangagwa has condemn... Zimbabwean riot police chase journalists out of news conference Journalists were chased away from a news conference on Friday as they were waiting for Zimbabwe's opposition leader Nelson Chamisa to address them. Zimbabwe's Mnangagwa wins presidential election Zimbabwe President Emmerson Mnangagwa, a former spy chief installed after Robert Mugabe’s removal in a coup in November, was elected on Thursday after a poll marred by the deaths of six people in an army crackdown on opposition protests. Jane Lanh... Zimbabwe violence punctures hopes of change The Zimbabwean army's use of deadly violence following the country's landmark election has punctured euphoria over the ousting of Robert Mugabe, and damaged hopes of a new democratic era. Zimbabwe elections trigger violence At least three people were killed in Zimbabwe's capital city of Harare in clashes with police during protests by opposition supporters angry at what they claim was a rigged election. Protests erupt as Zimbabwe awaits poll result Police have clashed with stone-throwing protesters on the streets of Harare, with reports one person has been shot dead. Opposition supporters are angry with a delay in the results of Zimbabwe's election, which they say is a sign it was rigged. Clashes in Zimbabwe as voters await election results Police and soldiers have clashed with opposition party supporters on the streets of Harare as Zimbabwe's main opposition leader accuses the ruling party of rigging the vote. Zimbabwe's voters stick with Mugabe's old party Zimbabwe's Zanu-PF has won a majority of seats in parliament, official results say, setting the stage for Emmerson Mnangagwa to win the presidency. Zimbabwe opposition alleges deliberate poll delay Zimbabwe's opposition has accused the country's electoral commission of deliberate delays in revealing the results of a presidential election, in order to favor the ruling Zanu-PF. Zimbabwe's Mugabe votes in first election since being ousted Former president Robert Mugabe votes in first Zimbabwean election without his name on the ballot paper in 38 years.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.