Jenna Etheridge WATCH: Overstrand fire rages on Air support has been brought in to battle a large fire in the Overstrand area in the Western Cape. The fire has devastated areas close to Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els. The Kogel Bay mountain fire (supplied by City of Cape Town) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town firefighters were on Monday keeping an eye on a fire which spread from Betty's Bay and forced the evacuation of holidaymakers at Kogel Bay Resort. An extensive area of vegetation caught alight along the R44 in the Kogel Bay area on Sunday morning, spreading from Betty's Bay on the upper slopes of the mountain, said City Fire and Rescue Services spokesperson Theo Layne. He said the resort was evacuated to ensure the safety of those who were camping at the site. A strong south-easterly wind fanned the blaze, but it died down on Sunday and provided some relief to firefighters. WATCH:  Fire rages out of control near Hermanus Firefighters from the Overstrand Municipality have spent the last 24 hours fighting an out of control fire about 10km from Hermanus in the Western Cape. "Crews have remained there throughout the night monitoring the fire, which is on the upper slopes of the mountain. We have one fire engine, one water tanker and one skid unit on [the] scene, assisted by nature conservation," Layne said on Monday. Read: Betty's Bay blaze: Wind, terrain hampering efforts to put out fire Road closed The fire was still burning along the R44 but there was no danger to life or property, the City's safety and security director, Richard Bosman, said. Western Cape traffic chief Kenny Africa added that the R44 Clarence Drive, between Rooi Els and Gordon's Bay, remained close on Monday morning due to veld fires. It is understood that a flare had been set off in Betty's Bay on New Year's Day, leading to a fire in the mountains. One person has been reported dead. Also read: Overstrand fire: R44 to remain closed overnight A man, aged 34, is expected to appear in Caledon Magistrate's Court on Monday for the alleged contravention of the Nature Conservation Act. It is unclear if a murder charge will be added if the police's forensics officials find that the deceased died as a result of the fire.On Thursday, police spokesperson Captain Harold Nqwenani told News24 that there were witnesses to the alleged contravention."We've got witnesses also. We locked the suspect at Kleinmond police station". According to the Greater Overberg Fire Protection Association, the fire is 60% contained and has burnt around 5 600 hectares of land. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Used car dealership goes up in flames The New Year got off to a bad start for the owner of this used car dealership in Goodwood, Cape Town. 
Tony McGeer, owner of Mc Gee's Auto says he received a phone call in the early hours of January 2, alerting him to a fire at his dealership. WATCH: Fire rages through Paarl mountains Firefighters are battling a fire raging through the mountains in Paarl, Western Cape. WATCH: St Francis Bay residents evacuated over runaway fire The Kouga Municipality in the Eastern Cape has ordered residents of St Francis Bay to evacuate their homes due to a runaway fire currently burning down a number of houses in the area on Tuesday. WATCH: From the cockpit - Pilot's view of the Garden Route fires Firefighting efforts intensified on the Garden Route in the Southern Cape this past weekend, as fires raged, leaving destruction in their wake. WATCH: This Garden Route 'firenado' is actually a fire whirl "Firenados" are more correctly called fire whirls, explained South African Weather Service chief forecaster Kevin Rae after a video capturing the phenomena made the rounds over the weekend. WATCH: More than 1 300 homeless after Khayelitsha blaze More than 1300 people have been left homeless after hundreds of shacks were destroyed in a blaze which broke out in Khayelitsha, the City of Cape Town said.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.