Kaveel Singh The Democratic Alliance in the eThekwini Metro says it will write to the city manager to prevent public coffers being used to record an album with former president Jacob Zuma. DA councillor Nicole Graham on Wednesday slammed media reports that the City's Parks, Recreation and Culture Unit would be recording struggle songs with Zuma in April. READ: Bring me my recording contract - Jacob Zuma to make struggle song album "This record deal is blatant patronage, where the people's money will be used to finance the former president's lifestyle," Graham charged. WATCH: 'It's me, former president Jacob Zuma' - Zuma joins social media Former president Jacob Zuma says he has decided to "move with times" and join various social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. Parks, Culture and Recreation Unit head Thembinkosi Ngcobo recently visited Zuma, saying the record deal would boost economic development by promoting cultural activities. "This proposal has not served before any committee of Council, nor has it been adopted by the Council. The DA has been calling for greater accountability and functionality of the city's parks unit. The unit has seemingly gone rogue, abandoning many of its core functions in favour of flashy events and concerts," Graham said. While the country's history held immense value, "it is impossible that any rational person would believe that a corrupt and disgraced former president singing ANC struggle songs holds any benefit to the people of eThekwini", she added. "The DA will fight this matter tooth and nail in the interests of all who prioritise service delivery over politics." A positive influence on society Responding to the move from the DA, Ngcobo said that the production of the album was part of the general functions of the municipality. He said that, during apartheid, the municipality would be responsible for enforcing segregation, citing the restrictions on black people at Durban beaches. "Black people's culture was seen as backward. Black people never formed part of the nation we had during that time. The message of this album will influence our society positively. It is an important part of our country's history." Ngcobo added that the City used pre-allocated monies in its budget to fund art projects. "We record many youth in the city. These are never questioned." He said the project was part of his department's mandate to encourage social cohesion, arts, culture and heritage. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter PARODY: Jacob Zuma sings Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word The closest SA may get to an apology from Jacob Zuma, is this parody of the president singing Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word. WATCH: Jacob Zuma arrives at court to support son Duduzane Former president Jacob Zuma arrived at the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday show support for his son Duduzane, who has been charged with two counts of culpable homicide. WATCH: 'Pay back the money' - MP's jeer at EFF's Floyd Shivambu in ironic turn of events EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu found himself on the receiving end of MP's jeering in Parliament on Tuesday, when he was heckled to "pay back the money" during a debate on the VBS Mutual Bank scandal. S.Africa: J. Zuma arrives at his hearing over corruption charges Former South African President Jacob Zuma arrives at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of fraud, racketeering and money laundering. 1ST WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan continues testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day2 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan faced intimidation and victimisation for refusing to be party to state capture, the judicial inquiry into state capture headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo heard on Monday. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma case postponed, Jacob Zuma, BLF show support Duduzane Zuma appeared briefly in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Friday. WATCH: Nugent commission deviated from original mandate says Moyane's lawyer Former president Jacob Zuma has entered the fray over the firing of South African Revenue Service (SARS) commissioner Tom Moyane, saying Judge Robert Nugent was not asked to deal with the individual contracts of employees at SARS. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan continues testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day2 / Part1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan faced intimidation and victimisation for refusing to be party to state capture, the judicial inquiry into state capture headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo heard on Monday. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part 3) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part 2) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part1) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. Power outage risk rising - South African utility Eskom South Africa's power company Eskom says the risk of nationwide electricity outages has increased significantly due to a sharp fall in coal stockpiles. S Africa's Ramaphosa confirms resignation of finance minister Nene South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa has accepted the resignation of Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene, who has faced calls to resign after he admitted to visiting the Gupta brothers, friends of scandal-plagued former leader Jacob Zuma who have b...   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.