Pelane Phakgadi Janusz Walus (File, Rapport) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Justice Minister Michael Masutha has missed a High Court deadline to give reasons why Chris Hani's killer, Janusz Walus, should remain behind bars, according to the Citizen. The Gauteng High Court in Pretoria gave Masutha 120 days to reconsider releasing Walus on parole. Walus assassinated SACP leader Hani in 1993. Walus' attorney, Julian Knight, said that in September last year, Judge Selby Baqwa gave the minister until early January to reconsider Walus' parole, taking into account all relevant information, including comments by Walus, Hani's widow, Limpho Hani, and the SACP on a negative parole board recommendation. Knight said the court had now given the minister an extension until Friday this week to make a decision. The lawyer further told the newspaper that Walus might consider taking the matter to the Constitutional Court if the issue of his parole is not resolved. Not enough remorse News24 previously reported that Masutha said releasing the convicted murderer on parole would be pointless, as he "still harbours resentment". Walus wrote to the parole board chairperson in 2013, stating that he had successfully completed anger management and life skills programmes. Masutha said Walus had not shown enough remorse for killing the SACP leader in the driveway of his Boksburg home on April 10, 1993. Masutha turned down Walus' 2013 application to be released in April 2015. Conservative Party MP Clive Derby-Lewis, who supplied the weapon Walus used to kill Hani, was sentenced to death for the murder in October 1993, along with the Polish immigrant. Their death sentences were commuted to life imprisonment in November 2000. Derby-Lewis was later released on medical parole suffering from lung cancer. He died in November 2016 at his home in Pretoria.  WATCH: Two 'high-ranking gangsters' among mourners at Pete Mihalik's funeral The funeral of slain Cape Town lawyer Pete Mihalik was held at the St Mary's Cathedral on Saturday. WATCH: Premier David Makhura receives letter of demand from coloured communities Residents in Gauteng communities affected by gang violence marched in Johannesburg on Friday to hand over a letter of demand to Gauteng Premier David Makhura. WATCH: Conterfeit goods confiscated in by-law enforcement operation Thirteen bags of counterfeit goods valued at R700 000.00 was confiscated in Tshwane on Wednesday. WATCH: Crash, booze, bang in Cape Town as nearly 12 000 litres of alcohol go down the drain City of Cape Town law enforcement officers popped open more than 16 000 liquor cans and bottles on Thursday as the City prepares for the upcoming festive season. WATCH: Durban thieves give up after relentless pursuit by security officers Two suspected thieves were arrested by Marshall Security after they tried to steal a vehicle from Musgrave Road in Berea, Durban. WATCH: Shady character steals designer sunglasses A thief with sticky fingers was able to steal two pairs of designer sunglasses from an optical store in Johannesburg last Friday. WATCH: Bogus police rob Nelspruit jewellery store Police are searching for a group of men who robbed a jewellery store at I'langa Mall in Nelspruit on Monday. WATCH: Criminal snatches phone out of man's shirt pocket at restaurant A couple enjoying late afternoon lattes were left phone-less at the hands of a brash thief on Wednesday. 

Outdoor sections of restaurants have become hotspots for criminals to snag people's possessions. WATCH | JHB crime stats: Drunk driving remains the city's most frequently recorded offence Drunk driving remains the highest offence in Johannesburg, according to the metro police latest statistics. WATCH: Heavily armed gang steals R170 000 from supermarket A Pick n Pay supermarket in Sebokeng was robbed of an estimated R170 000 last Saturday. This after several armed men demanded keys to the safe from the manager of the outlet. WATCH: Police chopper corners home robber on N1 Motorists on the N1 south in Johannesburg, South Africa had their commute interrupted on Thursday as police flooded the motorway, to arrest a fleeing house robber. What are the most feared household crimes in South Africa? A recent survey revealed that not only did household crime go up by 5% from the previous year in South Arica, but that citizens also feel it's prevented them from daily tasks and activities, and even letting their children play outside.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.