Jenni Evans SA police. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Two men wanted for the murder of an elderly Ottery couple were arrested by Cape Town police on Thursday night. "Detectives assigned to the case worked around the clock in search of the suspects, aged 20 and 29, who were both arrested at a residence in Delft," spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Andrè Traut said on Friday. One of the people arrested was discovered to have been an acquaintance of the couple. Rugaya and Riedwaan Addinall, both 82, were found murdered on Sunday at their home in Sandown Drive. READ: Elderly Cape Town couple murdered in their home Traut said Lansdowne detectives launched a thorough and comprehensive investigation to bring the two accused to book. They are expected to appear in the Wynberg Magistrate's Court on Monday. Police on Monday said a family member discovered the two bodies after being unable to get hold of them. A post mortem was being conducted to determine how they died. WATCH: Forensic teams comb crime scene after Mihalik shooting A police officer calls for assistance moments after criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik was shot dead in his car in Green Point, Cape Town. WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. WATCH | JHB crime stats: Drunk driving remains the city's most frequently recorded offence Drunk driving remains the highest offence in Johannesburg, according to the metro police latest statistics. What are the most feared household crimes in South Africa? A recent survey revealed that not only did household crime go up by 5% from the previous year in South Arica, but that citizens also feel it's prevented them from daily tasks and activities, and even letting their children play outside. WATCH: Police chopper corners home robber on N1 Motorists on the N1 south in Johannesburg, South Africa had their commute interrupted on Thursday as police flooded the motorway, to arrest a fleeing house robber. WATCH: 'It looked like a toy gun, he was so calm about it' - Eyewitness describes Mihalik murder WATCH: 'It looked like a toy gun, he was so calm about it' - Eyewitness describes Mihalik murder WATCH: Murder-accused Packham to spend Christmas in jail Murder-accused Rob Packham's bail was withdrawn for contacting witnesses and he was ordered to stay in custody until his trial in March over the death of his wife, the Western Cape High Court ruled on Thursday. WATCH: Life sentences for Hannah Cornelius' murderers The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. WATCH: Two farm workers accused of killing Coligny teen found guilty Two farm workers accused of killing a 15-year-old Coligny teen were found guilt of murder in the North West High Court in Mahikeng on Wednesday. WATCH: Courtney Pieters' killer gets two life sentences for her rape, murder The Western Cape High Court has sentenced Mortimer Saunders to two life sentences for the rape and murder of 3-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH: Security guard shot dead trying to help a man being robbed in Rosebank A security guard was shot dead in Rosebank on Friday afternoon. 

This is after he saw four suspects attempting to rob a man who was walking on the side of the road, police spokesperson Lungelo Dlamini told News24.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.