Sesona Ngqakamba Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa (PHOTO: Herman Verwey) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Department of Arts and Culture says it is shocked by reports from the Living Legends Legacy Programme executive committee that R8m has allegedly been stolen from the organisation. The programme was launched in 2015 by the Department of Arts and Culture to honour "living legends" in the arts, culture and heritage sector. The siphoning and alleged theft of the money was revealed during a media briefing held by the committee on Monday. According to Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa's spokesperson Asanda Magaqa, the trust account is held at FNB, Wierda Valley, Sandton branch. "I received this news with great shock and disbelief. That such a theft of such grand scale has occurred is in itself atrocious. But that this theft has occurred against this nation's 'Living Legends', our living national treasures whom the Department of Arts and Culture is supporting precisely because as a nation we owe them so much, leaves me in great disbelief," Mthethwa said. The minister said those responsible for robbing the trust account were "truly shameless". Department to make R20m contribution He said the department was working with law enforcement authorities to ensure that the perpetrators were speedily brought to book. "We have also had honest and frank talks with the 'Living Legends' and we are satisfied that they exercised the caution they did by monitoring the trust account and upon picking up this nefarious activity, brought it to my attention," said Mthethwa. The department said while it understood that the theft of the money would be a setback for the programme, it would continue supporting it. "On the contrary, the DAC (Department of Arts and Culture) committed R20m to them (the programme), and this is the amount in total that they will receive this financial year as promised. "The legends cannot be punished for the crime of those who would wish to derail the magnificent plans they have in the rich legacy they stand to leave subsequent generations and the nation, and in this regard, they will remain supported," Magaqa said in the statement. She added that the department would continue to put pressure on law enforcement agencies to ensure that the funds were recovered.  WATCH: Agrizzi claims he packed R50 000 a month for Minister Mokonyane Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi told the Zondo Commission that the company catered for ANC rallies and paid for the ruling party's birthday cake. Agrizzi was testifying about the relationship between Bosasa and Cabinet minister Nomvula Mokonyana WATCH: Security officer robbed of his firearm in parking lot A private security guard was robbed of his firearm at gunpoint at a shopping centre in Soweto. WATCH: 'Small meteor' lights up Cape night sky Social media was ablaze with talk about a meteor that lit up the Western Cape sky in loud, fiery fashion on Wednesday. 
One lucky farmer managed to capture the meteor on CCTV camera. WATCH | Wife, colleagues pay tribute to metro cop killed by taxi A Durban metro police officer, who was run over and killed while on duty outside the Galleria Mall in Amanzimtoti, will be laid to rest on Monday morning. WATCH: Cyclists attacked by 'furious' motorist near Stellenbosch Brendon Jacobs and Jandre Du Raan have been left traumatised after a motorist attacked the pair riding ahead of him near Stellenbosch on Sunday. WATCH: Bosasa and #StateCapture | Here's what you need to know... Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.