Duncan Alfreds Pringle Bay fire causes panic Firefighters battled on Thursday morning to curb the runaway fire raging on the mountain above Pringle Bay. The lappa section of Glen Craig outside Pringle Bay is seen after the fire. (Jean da Cruz) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A man has been arrested following a devastating blaze that tore through the Overstrand area, in the Western Cape. According to police, a 34-year-old man had been arrested for contravention of the Nature Conservation Act - a charge more serious than arson. "We arrested the suspect for the fires. We've got witnesses also. We locked the suspect at Kleinmond police station," Captain Harold Nqwenani told News24 on Thursday. READ: 1 killed, 3 injured in Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay blaze - fire chief WATCH: Overstrand fire rages on Air support has been brought in to battle a large fire in the Overstrand area in the Western Cape. The fire has devastated areas close to Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els. The fires have affected areas close to Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els. Overstrand Fire Services and Disaster Management chief Lester Smith confirmed one death to News24, though details are still sketchy. "Yes, one confirmed dead and SAPS and forensics will determine the cause," Smith told News24 earlier on Thursday. READ: Choppers brought in to battle Betty's Bay and Pringle Bay fires Police later confirmed the death. "This office can confirm that a 59-year-old woman who stayed in Elizabeth Road, Pringle Bay, passed away this morning at about 01:20," Captain FC van Wyk told News24. "A post-mortem will be conducted to determine the cause of death. An inquest case was registered for further investigation." The suspect was a local resident of the Mooiuitsig community near Betty's Bay, said Nqwenani. Netwerk24 reported on Wednesday that a reward of R5 000 was being offered for information leading to the conviction of those responsible for the fire. The report said that a flare had been set off in Betty's Bay, leading to a fire in the mountains. Nqwenani said the man would appear in court on Monday, January 7.  The #BettysBayFire has come uncomfortably close to homes. Over in #PringleBay, properties were evacuated earlier this AM, one person died in the blaze. 3 people were injured during the mass evacuations. Residents have since returned to their homes. @OpenNewsSA pic.twitter.com/qkV56sePGj  some pics #BettysBayFire pic.twitter.com/pWiwO4WAoa  #Firefighters and their support teams are still battling the #BettysBayFire. Multiple agencies on scene working together to bring the blaze under control. @OverbergFPA @wo_fire @vwsfires @OverstrandMuni pic.twitter.com/pqCBk7MVfW   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Used car dealership goes up in flames The New Year got off to a bad start for the owner of this used car dealership in Goodwood, Cape Town. 
Tony McGeer, owner of Mc Gee's Auto says he received a phone call in the early hours of January 2, alerting him to a fire at his dealership. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits. WATCH: Firefighter fight blaze to save hectares of Paarl fynbos destroyed in fire At least 500ha of 15-year-old fynbos was lost in the fire that swept through part of Paarl mountain, the Drakenstein municipality said as they scaled down on operations on Friday. WATCH: Flames engulf Kempton Park bus fleet Quick-acting firefighters in the east of Johannesburg were able to extinguish a blaze that engulfed a fleet of parked vehicles, late last week. WATCH: More than 1 300 homeless after Khayelitsha blaze More than 1300 people have been left homeless after hundreds of shacks were destroyed in a blaze which broke out in Khayelitsha, the City of Cape Town said. It's time to involve the entire security cluster - Blade Nzimande after latest Cape Town train fire Firefighters have arrived at Cape Town train station to battle yet another train-related blaze after thick, black smoke permeated the air above the station on Tuesday. 630 missing in California's deadliest blaze A search for victims of a catastrophic blaze that reduced a northern California town to ashes intensifies. Authorities now say more than 600 people are missing and 63 have been confirmed dead after the Camp Fire ripped through the town of Paradise. AP reporter recounts NorCal wildfire body search As firefighters searched the ruins of Paradise, California for the remains of those lost in a deadly wildfire, AP reporter Gillian Flaccus was there when two bodies were found. The blaze in Northern California destroyed the town of Paradise. Paradise lost: What's left of a California town The town of Paradise in northern California used to be home to nearly 30 thousand people. Photographer Terray Sylvester explains what's left of it a week into the state's deadliest and most destructive blaze in history. Firefighters tackle blaze at Chester Zoo Firefighters work to extinguish a blaze at Chester Zoo. Visitors have been evacuated after a fire broke out in the Monsoon Forest habitat area. So. Calif. wildfire roars to life in wilderness Thousands returned to neighborhoods evacuated during Southern California's deadly wildfire but officials said the threat is far from over.  The huge blaze briefly gained renewed life Tuesday with a flare-up in the Santa Monica Mountains. 48 known dead in Northern California wildfire Authorities on Tuesday reported six more fatalities from the Northern California blaze, bringing the total number of dead so far to 48. They haven't disclosed the total number still missing, but earlier in the week that figure was more than 200. California firefighters work through the night Firefighters worked into the night Monday trying to contain a blaze that killed at least 42 people and destroyed 6,700 structures, mostly homes, in northern California. Officials search for remains after Paradise blaze The grim search through charred debris continued Monday in the Northern California community of Paradise, after a wildfire swept through the area. Officials said 42 people were confirmed dead as fire crews continue to battle the blaze. California wildfires: At least 42 killed in deadliest blaze A Northern California wildfire is the most deadly in US history after 42 people were killed. At least 228 people are still missing in the area in and around the town of Paradise, California after the devastating blaze. Camp Fire becomes California's deadliest with 42 killed Search teams have recovered remains of 42 people killed by a fierce wildfire that largely incinerated the town of Paradise in northern California, marking the greatest loss of life from a wild land blaze in state history. Footage from inside car shows devastation of California wildfires Footage from inside a car escaping a blaze in Paradise shows the devastation of the California wildfires. 31 people are now confirmed to have died in the blazes. Grenfell Inquiry hears distressing 999 call of family's escape Marcio Gomes can be heard in a distressing 999 call on the night of the Grenfell Tower fire. Mr Gomes and his wife were expecting a son in August 2017, but Logan Gomes was stillborn in hospital following the blaze. 100 firefighters tackle blaze in East Finchley Up to 100 firefighters tackle blaze in East Finchley. Man who filmed B.C. pipeline fire says it’s a ‘wake up call’ Terry Teegee says he felt debris falling as he took video of a blaze following a natural gas pipeline explosion near Prince George, B.C. The AFN regional chief says the safety of existing pipelines should be assessed. Outrage as fire at Brazil's leading museum destroys priceless artifacts Heartbroken residents and employees gathered outside Brazil's National Museum a day after it was ravaged by a blaze. Almost 90 percent of its artefacts are thought to have been lost. Questions have been raised about the cause of fire, which is yet... Brazil mourns loss of National Museum destroyed by fire The cherished historical repository in Rio de Janeiro destroyed by fire over the weekend was plagued by underfunding and lacked fire prevention systems. Zachary Goelman reports Primary school damaged by major fire on eve of new term Firefighters are tackling a blaze at Roding Primary School on Hewett Road, Dagenham, London Fire Brigade said. Drone footage of gutted museum Footage from the air shows the devastation caused by a huge blaze. Rio museum consumed by fire Firefighters are battling a huge blaze at the National Museum of Brazil in Rio de Janeiro. Rio's 200-year old National Museum hit by massive fire A fire ripped through a museum in Brazil on Sunday, threatening its collection of more than 20 million items from fossils to Egyptian artifacts. 'Heartbreaking' fire engulfs Liverpool's famed Littlewoods building A "heartbreaking" blaze at Liverpool's Littlewoods building raged into Monday morning, leaving fire crews battling to save the landmark. Fire breaks out an oil refinery in Germany forcing thousands to evacuate More than 2000 people have been evacuated following a blaze at an oil refinery in Bavaria. Nine people have been injured. Fire breaks out at Primark store in Belfast city centre Fire and smoke can be seen from a major blaze which has broken out at the Primark store in Belfast city centre. Mexican firefighters help battle Shovel Lake wildfire in B.C. A crew of Mexican firefighters helped deal with smouldering hotspots in areas burned by the Shovel Lake wildfire, near Endako, B.C., on Thursday. The blaze is the largest of nearly 600 wildfires burning in the province. Firefighters tackle blaze at mill in Manchester Firefighters are tackling a huge blaze at a mill close to Strangeways prison in Manchester. Plumes of thick black smoke could be seen across the city as crews battled the fire at the building on Southall Street. Third firefighter killed responding to CA wildfire A mechanic helping to fight the Carr Fire in California died in a traffic collision on Thursday becoming the third firefighter to die from that blaze. Wildfire threatens popular Portuguese towns Portugal's wildfire moves south towards tourist coastal spots as firefighters continue to battle the blaze No relief as wildfires ravage California Sunrise over California on Wednesday brought no relief for firefighters as they struggled to contain more than a dozen stubborn wildfires ravaging the state. Death of seven-year-old in Deptford house fire being treated as murder A murder probe has been launched after a seven-year-old boy was killed in a deliberate arson attack on his family's house. Massive wildfire becomes largest in California history Two California wildfires have merged, creating the largest blaze in the state's history. Firefighters have only contained a small part of the Mendocino Complex fire in the northern part of the state, and hot weather is setting the stage for the fi... Jet drops fire retardant liquid on raging Orange County blaze Firefighters in DC-10 air tankers on Monday attacked the fast-moving 'Holy Fire' with red-coloured fire retardant in an attempt to stop the blaze from advancing. Calm winds give hope in destructive CA wildfires Calm winds are expected to allow more people back into their homes on Wednesday as firefighters in California work to gain control over deadly wildfires. Hopes high for calm winds in deadly CA blaze Some 36,000 firefighters struggling against one of the most destructive wildfires in California's history hope calmer winds on Tuesday will allow them to make more progress in carving out buffers to contain the blaze. California wildfire tears through homes One person has died and others have fled their properties as a blaze rips through the city of Redding. Dozens evacuated as 100 firefighters tackle blaze at block of flats Around 100 firefighters are tackling a blaze at a block of flats in north-west London. Greece is hit by deadliest wildfires in decades Greece's Attica region has been engulfed with fast moving fires killing at least 79 people, injuring hundreds and forcing many more to rush on to beaches and into the sea as the blaze devoured houses and cars California wildfire spreads to 2,500 acres A brush fire in northern California has turned into a dangerous blaze, spreading to more than 2,500 acres and threatening homes on its first day. One dead, two hurt battling U.S. wildfires A tractor operator was killed while trying to clear brush around a massive wildfire in central Oregon and two firefighters were hurt battling a blaze near Yosemite in California. Homes reduced to rubble in California wildfire The Holiday Fire in Southern California's Santa Barbara County continues to burn reducing homes to rubble. Firefighters up against it in western U.S. Fires in northern California and Colorado are challenging firefighters in both states and, while progress has been made near Sacramento, conditions in both states are ripe for a fiery summer. Grenfell firefighter in tears at inquiry A firefighter who battled the blaze at Grenfell Tower brought his evidence at the inquiry into the disaster to a halt by bursting into tears.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.