Pelane Phakgadi Advocate Nomgcobo Jiba's legal team at the Mokgoro Inquiry. (Pelane Phakgadi/News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Retired Constitutional Court Justice Yvonne Mokgoro says bribery allegations levelled against suspended Deputy National Director for Public Prosecutions (NDPP) Nomgcobo Jiba and Special Director of Public Prosecutions Lawrence Mrwebi will, for now, not form part of the inquiry she heads. She said she has not received an affidavit containing the allegations made against them. Mokgoro is heading up an inquiry in Centurion into Jiba and Mrwebi's fitness to hold office. During his testimony at the state capture commission last week, former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi testified that Jiba received at least R100 000 and Mrwebi R10 000 to kill an ongoing corruption probe by the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) officials and the Hawks. READ: Exclusive: Agrizzi to implicate Zuma, Jiba in Bosasa scandal Jiba's attorney, Thulane Masuku, denied that his client had received any money. "She has not received a notice, so she is not in a position to give any direct response to the allegations themselves, except to say she has not received any money from anybody. She has performed her work with diligence and with professionalism, and she will give her evidence at the right time." Masuku said they took note of the testimony and would ask for Agrizzi's affidavit from the state capture commission before deciding on the next move. "She is keen to deal with the allegations in the forum they have been made", said Masuku. READ: ANC distances itself ahead of more revelations expected at state capture inquiry from former Bosasa COO The first witness at the commission on Monday was Acting National Director for Public Prosecutions (NDPP) Silas Ramaite. He dealt with various regulations and procedures, particularly where the NDPP was required to provide consent for a prosecution. In his submissions, Ramaite explained the power of the NDPP and that of the regional directors for public prosecutions (DPP). Senior Council for the evidence team, Nazreen Bawa, asked Ramaite to explain circumstances in which the NDPP would interfere with prosecutions handled by the DPPs. #MokgoroEnquiry Rip argues that any review by the NDPP on any case to overturn a decision by a regional Director for Prosecution to prosecute should be on "no prospects of a successful prosecution", and not attribute it to lack of "public interest". (@PelaneM) Ramaite was also cross examined by Jiba's and Mrwebi's legal teams. Representing Mrwebi was senior council, Mervyn Rip, who wanted Ramaite to explain his evidence related to the grounds on which the NPA would decide to prosecute. Former Special Commercial Crimes Unit (SCCU) head Chris Jordaan took to the stand, and gave his version on how the SCCU was meant to operate. He retired in 2011. "Jordaan said his submissions at the enquiry was for "purposes of offering what assistancxe my experience enables me to". He however warned Justice Mokgoro that his submissions "should not be perceived as an endeavour to cast anybody previously or currently involved with SCCU in a negative light or harm anyone's reputation in anyway whatsoever". The enquiry is expected to continue on Tuesday, with Chris MacAdam, the Senior Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions scheduled to answer questions.    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.