Sesona Ngqakamba ANC banner (PHOTO: Deaan Vivier) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The ANC kicks off its 107th anniversary celebrations on Monday with members of the national executive committee (NEC) engaging with various communities in 11 regions of KwaZulu-Natal. Party president Cyril Ramaphosa will be in the lower South Coast region where he will conduct door-to-door engagements at the Masinenge informal settlement and Merlewood, Ward 17. Ramaphosa is also expected to attend a community meeting at Marburg Secondary School and visit the Port Shepstone taxi rank. Meanwhile, deputy president David Mabuza will be in the Emalahleni region where he will conduct a walkabout at the KwaMdakane taxi rank and door-to-door engagements at the Lembede branch and Phakamani branch in Newcastle. Parliament members' list finalised The party will officially launch its election manifesto during its annual January 8 statement celebration, which will be held at the Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban on Saturday, January 12. On Sunday, the party finalised its list of around 200 members to be sent to Parliament, as well as those to be sent to the provincial legislatures after the 2019 general elections. This will now be subject to further vetting. ANC NEC officials and acting national spokespeople Dakota Legoete and Zizi Kodwa announced the outcomes of the party's list conference, following a two-day meeting held in Durban. The party announced that more than 800 names had been debated and discussed. The top 25% of names on provincial lists will go into a "safe zone". KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  South Africa's ex-president just signed a record deal Former president Jacob Zuma, who is implicated in a major corruption scandal, has been given a taxpayer-funded record deal. Zuma on land: Less debate, more nationalisation Former President Jacob Zuma said there is too much debate about land expropriation without compensation to his liking, and suggested that land should be nationalised. WATCH: Khabisi Mosunkutu remembered at emotional memorial service The memorial service of ANC stalwart Khabisi Mosunkutu was held on Friday at Pimville,Soweto. The 69-year-old former MEC passed away on Monday after battling with his health for some time. 2017: WATCH: A News24 Festive Season special - politicians 'sing' Last Christmas Watch as South African politicians attempt to 'sing' pop duo Wham!'s 1984 hit single, Last Christmas. WATCH: ANC mourns the passing of Mendi Msimang - 'A giant tree has fallen' ANC pays tribute to struggle stalwart and its former treasurer-general Mendi Msimang following his passing at the age of 78. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. RUSSIA TRIP: 'I'm back' says David Mabuza; paid for own trip to get medical treatment Deputy President David Mabuza has emerged in Piet Retief, Mpumalanga, after he went to Russia for a routine medical trip after taking sick leave last month. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. LAND REFORM: The exact moment resolution to amend Constitution is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. WATCH: Singing in chamber as resolution that Constitution be amended is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. WATCH: 'We are not fighting the ANC' - Mahumapelo ahead of court appearance Former ANC North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo addresses supporters before fighting the NEC decision to disband his PEC at the South Gauteng High Court. WATCH: Dan Plato elected as Cape Town mayor Dan Plato has been elected as Cape Town's new executive mayor during a special council sitting on Tuesday. WATCH: ANC paints Joburg yellow demanding service delivery Hundreds of ANC members from greater Joburg – in collaboration with alliance partners Sanco, SACP and Cosatu – are marching to the offices of Mayor Herman Mashaba, Premier David Makhura and Eskom to hand over memorandums demanding service delivery WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. Outa, ANCGP and civil society groups march to union buildings against etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. Thousands marched through the streets of Tshwane on Friday morning. WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. WATCH: 'Pay back the money' - MP's jeer at EFF's Floyd Shivambu in ironic turn of events EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu found himself on the receiving end of MP's jeering in Parliament on Tuesday, when he was heckled to "pay back the money" during a debate on the VBS Mutual Bank scandal. WATCH: Police clash with marchers at ANC demonstration A scuffle ensued between a group wearing Sanco t-shirts and police after fireworks was allegedly fired during an ANC march on Friday to Premier David Makhura's office demanding service delivery.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.