Sharlene Rood WATCH: Armed local farmer walks into demonstration in Greyton Western Cape police are probing an incident in which a man was caught on camera wielding a firearm during a demonstration in Greyton on Monday. Western Cape police are probing an incident in which a man was caught on camera wielding a firearm during a demonstration in Greyton on Monday. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Western Cape police are probing an incident involving a man who was caught on camera on Monday, wielding a firearm during a demonstration in Greyton. Western Cape police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana told News24 that Genadendal had opened an enquiry for investigation. "Once the investigation is finalised, action can be taken," he said. According to the ANC's information, the municipality removed toilets from the Madiba Park informal settlement on Sunday. On Monday, the ANC was informed that water supplied to the settlement was cut. Residents resolved to protest and their action angered a farmer who got out of his vehicle and remonstrated with the protesters. He produced his firearm. ANC secretary in the Western Cape, Faiez Jacobs, said they were "horrified and angry" that police allowed the armed farmer to walk into the demonstration while brandishing his firearm. "We are deeply shocked that police led him away instead of arresting him," Jacobs said in a statement. The statement said the farmer's name was known to the ANC. "We demand that police put an end to this kind of behaviour, which is so reminiscent of apartheid South Africa. We demand an investigation into the police's inaction," Jacobs said. Shutdown threat He warned that tension was escalating fast in the DA stronghold and added that the local municipality could face a shutdown from 18:00 on Wednesday if they didn't take Madiba Park residents' call for land seriously. "We believe that Greyton is on a knife edge. The municipality must take the demands made today (Tuesday) seriously. Knowing the DA and their disdain and disregard for the poor, we will not be surprised if they don't lift a finger." Rwexana said police will continue to monitor the situation. "Should there be protests, public order police will be deployed in the area," he said. Meanwhile, the ANC Youth League in the Western Cape called for immediate action to be taken against the farmer and that he be declared unfit to own a gun. They named the man in their statement. "As far as we are concerned, the law is clear: it is a criminal offence to take out a firearm in public if it is not to be used for self-defence," the statement said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. WATCH: Motorist refuses to 'pay' bribe for speeding A video of a Mpumalanga motorist confronting traffic officers after they allegedly asked him for a bribe has gone viral on social media. WATCH: Betty's Bay fire victim shares heartbreaking experience of the blaze A Betty's Bay resident has spoken out about the trauma of losing her home in a fire that raged through the town at the weekend. WATCH: Limpopo diesel thief drives off without paying R3 179 bill A white Ford Ranger bakkie was caught on CCTV camera making off with fuel worth R3 179, without paying a cent. WATCH: Man desperately tries to save beached dolphin When Paul Gardiner spotted a dolphin stranded on a beach in the Eastern Cape, he didn't think twice before trying to rescue the animal. WATCH: Robert Gumede gifts his son a Porsche for passing matric Business tycoon Robert Gumede has gifted his 18-year-old son with a Porsche GT3, retailing at around R3 million, for passing matric.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.