Jyothi Laldas ON December 30, 2018, members of KwaDukuza SAPS Community Service Centre (CSC), Serious and Violent Crime Unit, led by Captain Shaun Bruwer, together with Umhlali K9 Search and Rescue led by Sergeant Clinton Odayer and K9 Dante, worked tirelessly to dig up a newly cemented floor in the home of Zandile Mhlongo (35) after her family reported her missing. According to Bruwer, after several hours of digging, members of the SAPS discovered a body in a shallow, half-metre grave. The body was later identified as the body of Mhlongo. He said SAPS officers were led to the home of Mhlongo after she had been reported missing on the Sunday by her family members. “We immediately took interest in the case after interviewing the family and hearing the circumstances around the murder victim’s disappearance.” According to the victim’s family, Mhlongo was last seen with her husband during the evening of December 27, 2018. During the early hours of December 28, the family noticed that the victim had disappeared and both her cellphones were turned off. “The victim’s family had grown suspicious, and their suspicions had increased after the victim’s husband had also disappeared. “Upon contacting the victim’s husband, the husband did not inform the family where Mhlongo was, and was extremely unco-operative, which led the family to the KwaDukuza SAPS,” Bruwer said. Members of the KwaDukuza SAPS gave the case immediate attention and went straight to the victim’s home in the Quba area in Ntshawini. “During the initial investigation, we had discovered the newly cemented floor on the premises, which indicated something sinister. “Umhlali K9 Search and Rescue, led by Sergeant Clinton Odayer and K9 Dante, searched the premises and K9 Dante picked up a human scent that was coming from the concrete floor, which was then dug up by the members to recover the victim’s body,” he said. A case of murder has been opened at KwaDukuza SAPS and is being investigated by the KwaDukuza SAPS Serious and Violent Crime Unit and various leads are being followed. KwaDukuza SAPS Station Commander Brigadier S.F. Mhlongo expressed her condolences to the victim’s family and condemned the senseless murder. “Members [of the police] will be working around the clock to ensure that justice will be served and the perpetrator will be put behind bars. “A job well done to all members of the KwaDukuza CSC, Serious and Violent Crime Unit, together with Umhlali K9 Search and Rescue on their good work in recovering the victim’s body,” she said. KwaDukuza SAPS urged members of the community to come forward with any information regarding the case. Anyone with information on the case can contact Captain Shaun Bruwer at 083 446 1530 or Station Commander Brigadier S.F. Mhlongo at 082 376 2591.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.