Riaan Grobler GOOD leader Patricia de Lille announces her party's interim leadership at the Royal Cape Yacht Club on Sunday. (Jan Gerber/News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories GOOD party leader and former Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille on Tuesday took DA leader Mmusi Maimane to task for apparently using one of her well-known catchphrases. Maimane tweeted about how corruption had destroyed the country's ability to provide services to its citizens. He ends his tweet with the phrase: "PUT THEM IN JAIL NOT IN PARLIAMENT." De Lille, who last year resigned from the DA following 18 months of acrimony between her and that party, seemed amused that Maimane would use a phrase she claims to have coined. "I see that Mmusi's script-writers have been using my statements verbatim in his speeches. I understand that he has a little policy problem but no need to steal my statements. I'm prepared to write a script for him because clearly I'm GOOD at it," she quipped. 'It's time for a new political order' - De Lille announces new political party Former Cape Town mayor and DA member Patricia de Lille says she is ready to serve her country under a new political movement. I see that Mmusi’s script-writers have been using my statements verbatim in his speeches. I understand that he has a little policy problem but no need to steal my statements. I’m prepared to write a script for him because clearly I’m GOOD at it ?? @ForGoodZA https://t.co/MCirCVM0XL  De Lille told News24 on Wednesday that she was the first to use that phrase. At the announcement of the GOOD party leadership on January 20, De Lille was quoted by News24 as saying, on the issue of corruption: "All criminals should be put in jail, and not in Parliament. If we do that now, half of Parliament will be gone." The phrase seems to have struck a chord with Maimane, who repeated it while campaigning in Umlazi in KwaZulu-Natal last week, ahead of voter registration this past weekend. DA spokesperson Solly Malatsi told News24 it was "nonsense" that only De Lille could use that phrase and that Maimane had used it before on several occasions. Last week, De Lille issued a statement accusing the DA of using her name on their registration campaign trail. "Today I was in Mitchells Plain to encourage residents to register to vote over this coming weekend," De Lille said on January 25. "I was shocked to hear from a number of households that the DA is telling voters that I am still a member of the DA. "I demand that they stop using my name to try (sic) win support. I encourage all South Africans to use this weekend to secure their right to vote. Please register to vote," De Lille said at the time. The DA must stop using my name to try win support. I encourage all South Africans to use this weekend to secure their right to vote.  The DA dismissed these claims, saying it had "moved on since parting ways with De Lille," IOL reported. De Lille told News24 that her new party had been active on the ground during the final voter registration process at the weekend. "We were visible all around the country and managed to get a number of people to register. "No matter who people vote for, each person who registers contributes to democracy in South Africa," De Lille said. WATCH: Patricia de Lille talks about her future and her journey as Cape Town mayor Her battle with the DA was like an abusive relationship, Patricia de Lille says. And the best decision when caught in such a situation is to walk away, "because it's not going to change". WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: 10 million eligible voters are unregistered - IEC Almost 10 million South Africans who are eligible to vote are not registered, the Independent Electoral Commission said on Wednesday. Patricia de Lille on her lowest time in her politics career The past 18 months have seen battle royal in the DA in Cape Town, which reached a turning point on Wednesday when Patricia de Lille resigned as mayor and DA member amid a criminal investigation against her.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.