Jenna Etheridge Gun. (Photo: Gallo/Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A man has been arrested for allegedly shooting dead a disabled man in Ravensmead, Cape Town, Western Cape police said on Wednesday. The Anti-Gang Unit heard shots while in the Uitsig neighbourhood on Tuesday and ran towards the sound, said spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Andre Traut. They spotted a man in his twenties running down Cassia Street, before dropping a 9mm pistol. Read: Cape Town man killed in apparent gang-related shooting "Further investigation revealed that he had shot and killed a 23-year-old man minutes before," said Traut. The suspected gang member was arrested on charges of murder and possession of an unlicensed firearm. Residents told the Daily Voice that the victim, who was sitting behind a security gate when he was shot, had been expected to testify in a court case. Police did not confirm whether this was true. WATCH: 1 dead, 1 injured in Valhalla Park gang-related shooting One person was shot dead and another injured in a gang-related shooting in Valhalla Park, Cape Town, on Thursday morning. WATCH: 'My brother Naka rugby-tackled all four robbers out of the house' - Tinus Drotské Former Springbok Naka Drotské's brother Tinus relives the events leading up to his brother being shot. WATCH. WATCH: Chinese national shot and wounded, cash stolen in Johannesburg A Chinese national was shot and wounded and cash stolen out of his vehicle when several armed robbers pounced on his car south of Johannesburg yesterday. WATCH: Shooting at KZN court - two confirmed dead At least two people have been shot and killed at the Durban Magistrate's Court. WATCH: Would-be robber shot dead outside Limpopo mall A would-be bag thief was shot and killed in the parking lot of a Polokwane mall; this after the owner of the bag gave chase, pointed a firearm at the assailant and pulled the trigger. #OurLostChildren: Remembering baby Zahnia - caught in gang crossfire Cindy Woodward will never hear her firstborn call her mommy. #ReleaseMartha: Son of murdered husband threatens to take matters into own hands Relatives of Martha Marumo's deceased husband say if she receives a presidential pardon for the murder of Clitus Marumo, "something is going to happen". WATCH: Man shot dead in car in Welkom mall parking lot A 54-year-old man was shot at close range while sitting in his car outside a shopping centre in Welkom on Saturday, police said on Sunday. WATCH: Forensic teams comb crime scene after Mihalik shooting A police officer calls for assistance moments after criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik was shot dead in his car in Green Point, Cape Town. WATCH: Criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik shot dead outside Green Point school Reports have emerged that lawyer Pete Mihalik has been murdered in a Cape Town shooting. WATCH: Security guard shot dead trying to help a man being robbed in Rosebank A security guard was shot dead in Rosebank on Friday afternoon. 

This is after he saw four suspects attempting to rob a man who was walking on the side of the road, police spokesperson Lungelo Dlamini told News24. WATCH: Shop owner shooting a 23-year-old boy results in a community uprising in Johannesburg, SA Two people have been shot dead during ongoing violence and shop looting in Dobsonville, Soweto on Wednesday afternoon, police told News24.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.