Sesona Ngqakamba Naledi Tsungo and Anesu Ngwane. (Image via Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories One of the girls who went missing from a Pretoria estate on Tuesday has been found, the police have said. According to the police, the girl was found in Midrand on Wednesday afternoon. Naledi Tsungo and Anesu Ngwane went missing while playing tennis at Meadow Glen Residential Estate tennis court in Moreleta Park on Tuesday afternoon. Police spokesperson Kay Makhubele said the 8-year-old was found by a woman in Carlton Centre in the Johannesburg CBD who is believed to have taken her home with her. According to Makhubele the other girl was still being sought. Makhubele said on Wednesday morning the girl directed the woman to a house she said her father resided in. When they got there, there was no one home. “She then took the child to security guards who informed the police and that’s how she was found,” he said. “They are now taking statements from her[woman] to indicate how she found her,”  Makhubele said. Earlier their mom had told News24 about her anguish. "I am torn apart and distressed because I don't know where my kids slept." An emotional Keneilwe Tsungo told News24 that her daughters went to Meadow Glen Residential Estate tennis court in Moreleta Park  after returning home from school. "The kids were here yesterday (Tuesday) after school and then they went to the tennis court to play tennis. Then after that they disappeared," Tsungo said. It's alleged that a man took the girls at around 18:00. Tsungo was told that the girls were seen leaving the estate in a vehicle "that looked like an Uber". She explained that they did not have any family nearby and were confused about who may have taken the girls. At the time of their disappearance, Naledi Tsungo was wearing a blue denim shorts and a white T-shirt while Anesu Ngwane was wearing grey shorts and a green sweater. Tsungo said the estate had tight security. READ: Sigh of relief as missing children found in Pretoria "I don't know who took them, why and what was the arrangement," she said. Gauteng Police spokesperson Kay Makhubele said the police searched all night for the young girls. "We are still searching for the kids. The police have been searching for the kids since last night at 22:00 and they are still on the road now searching for them," Makhubele said. He said a case of kidnapping was opened and leads were being followed. Anyone who has further information can contact the police. Hi Everyone. Please Help????! My Sis's neighbor's daughters went missing yday about 5:45pm in Moreleta PTA East. They're 8yrs old, Naledi is wearing blue denim shorts & white top, Anesu grey shorts & green sweater. Please RT to save a life ????. If seen, please contact 0832612035. Tx pic.twitter.com/jNIuTNj6YL 8-year-old sisters Nadeli & Anesu went missing for Moreleta PTA East yesterday @ about 5:45PM. Naledi is wearing blue denim shorts & a white top. Anesu is wearing grey shorts & green sweater. Anyone with information about their current whereabouts should contact 0832612035 https://t.co/PFAMkqKrIg The entire estate are praying for their safe return ?? KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.