Ntwaagae Seleka From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg. It wasn't only the efforts of pupils that raised the matric pass rate at Moqhaka High School by 40%, but also the extra efforts of their parents. Emily Khumalo, the proud principal of the school in Sebokeng in the Vaal, told News24 in an exclusive interview that parents were the ones who were behind the 94.3% pass mark the school obtained in 2018. The school made an improvement of 40 percentage points, from 54% in 2017. By 07:00 on Wednesday, a group of matriculants was already in class studying on their own before heading to the assembly to be addressed by Khumalo and other teachers. The assembly began with a short prayer sermon, before the principal could address the pupils. An emotional Khumalo told them that without hard work and dedication, the class of 2018 would not have made the school the third most-improved school in the province. Handling a trophy and a certificate from the province, Khumalo welcomed new pupils into the school and encouraged the class of 2019 to achieve a 100% pass rate. 'God answered our prayers' "Today I am proud to say God has answered our prayers. Unlike last year this time, today I am a happy person. If it was not because of your efforts and hard work you have shown from Grade 8, we would not be celebrating today. "This victory is not for the school only, but for the township, district and province. I am proud of the class of 2018. They raised the flag high and it is up to you to obtain 100%, which we all agreed on. We want to be number one in Gauteng," she said to loud applause. Preparations by the class of 2018 began on January 2, 2018. Pupils were taught from 07:00 to 16:00 daily, including weekends. They were also taught during holidays. "We had a study camp where learners were sleeping in the school, studying and being taught. I want to thank parents who contributed a lot by sleeping in the school when my learners were studying at night. "This school does not have security guards. But parents and SGB (school governing body) members have volunteered to look after the school 24 hours. As a mother, I am faced with many challenges because some of my learners are from poor backgrounds and others from child-headed families," she said. READ: Gauteng celebrates: Only 3 schools didn't reach a 70% matric pass rate The school has partnered with NGOs to assist those who come from poor backgrounds and child-headed families with social welfare. This year, learning started on Monday and Khumalo said they were going to intensify their programme to ensure progress by the middle of the year. "This school was once regarded as the worst one in the Vaal before I arrived in 2010. I found it in disarray and managed to change it. Many thought that as a woman, I was going to fail. But with the support of my teachers, district and parents, we are now turning it into a school where every parent wants to take their children to," she said. 'We are flowers of the school' Grade 12 pupil, Tebogo Mafisa promised that a 100% pass rate was a mountain to climb but with dedication, hard work, listening to teachers and doing schoolwork, it was achievable. "We are the flowers of this school. We are different from other learners in lower grades. Everyone is expecting us to shine more than our predecessors and we are promising to achieve that. We now walk and wear our uniforms with pride after what the class of 2018 achieved. "They have raised the bar and it is up us to raise it further. We know that we need only 6% to obtain 100%. The number might look small, but it needs extra efforts to achieve it. On Monday, we were given homework to do. Matric is not a joke and we promised our principal that we are going to make her proud," he said.  WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. Revision, staying active, working hard: Cream of 2018 matric crop share their insights Some of the 2018 National Senior Certificate (NSC) top achievers say that they remain anxious on how well they have done ahead of the results being announced at Midnight on Thursday. WATCH: SAPS escort pupils to matric farewell in Nyala Making an entrance is an extra bonus point when making a statement at a matric farewell. One couple in particular, turned heads when they rocked up in a police Nyala van escorted by police officers at their farewell in Newcastle over the weekend. Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Head boy and top achiever ready to 'get his future started' King David High School Linksfield's 2017 head boy, who earned seven distinctions in the IEB matric exams, has some advice for those entering their matric year. Here are the alternate avenues to explore if your matric results weren't ideal Here are the alternate avenues to explore of your matric results weren't ideal Matric pass rate should be at 100% - Wits professor Wits professor Marissa Rollnick says a matric pass rate of 100% is achievable. 'Consistency was key for me' - Rebecca Haines, top matric mathematics achiever Top matric mathematics achiever Rebecca Haines from Rustenburg High School For Girls in Cape Town says her excellent results came down to working consistently. Matric exams: How does upward mark adjustment work? Upward mark adjustments usually take place when exam papers are proven to be more difficult than previous years. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. 'I strategised; I had a timetable and I stuck to it' - top matric achiever Mapula Sebati Thousands of matrics throughout the country will know their individual results on Wednesday. However, the top achievers for the class of 2015 were celebrated on Tuesday after the official announcement by Minister of Education, Angie Motshekga. Top SA matric says his rare disease motivated him to study medicine this year After missing almost two terms of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker still managed to be the overall top achiever of 2015. WATCH: You have a second chance to ace matric Universities across the country are about to open up their doors. Although the national pass rate was 71. 5%, many students did not obtain the necessary results to get them into institutions of higher learning. 'The bigger plan is to become president,' says top matric performer Tumelo Mashigo, part of the class of 2017, hopes to one day be president.

The 18-year-old was the second best performing learner with special needs among the most recent matriculants and hopes to make the world a better place one day. WATCH: 5 tips to acing your matric exams Matric examination got underway on Monday across the country. Here are a few tips for A+ results. WATCH: Limpopo matriculant comes out tops despite textbook, computer shortage Dimpho Phalane, a matriculant at Mampotjane Secondary School in Limpopo, could barely contain her excitement when she realised she was one of the country's top achievers. SA's top matriculant missed half the school year due to a rare disease After missing almost six months of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker managed to nab the coveted spot of SA's best matriculant. 'I dream of being an astronaut' – Durban matriculant with 11 distinctions A Durban matriculant who achieved 11 distinctions in 2017's IEB examinations says she dreams of being an astronaut.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.