Kaveel Singh WATCH: Door of Hope: A new beginning for abandoned babies The Door of Hope organisation has taken care of more than 1500 children since it was established in 1999.

One of the ways they take in children is through the "baby bin" - a hole in the wall were parents can leave their unwanted babies. (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories An abandoned Johannesburg baby, thought to be no more than two months old, was saved on New Year's Day, paramedic services said on Tuesday evening. The baby boy was found wrapped in a blanket at a bus stop on Third Avenue in The Hill, ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring said. "The young patient was assessed and found to have escaped injury, although suffering from low body temperature. "Paramedics quickly warmed the boy and later handed him over to the local and relevant authorities for further investigations." Meiring said local authorities were alerted to this incident. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Mickey Mouse gets an African makeover in time for his 90th birthday Iconic Disney character Mickey Mouse has been given a makeover, African style - and it's in time for his 90th birthday. WATCH: Door of Hope: A new beginning for abandoned babies The Door of Hope organisation has taken care of more than 1500 children since it was established in 1999.

One of the ways they take in children is through the "baby bin" - a hole in the wall were parents can leave their unwanted babies. WATCH: Train up in flames in Mayfair Two carriages of a passenger train caught fire at Mayfair Station, west of Johannesburg on Sunday. WATCH: Leeuwkop prison surprise raid: Dagga, shanks and cellphones found On Thursday morning the Department of Correctional Services executed a surprise raid at Leeuwkop prison in Johannesburg, catching inmates off guard and revealing their illicit possessions. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. WATCH: Timol family allowed to intervene in Rodrigues stay of prosecution bid The legal representatives of late struggles activists, Ahmed Timol and Dr Hoosen Haffejee appeared at the Gauteng high court in Johannesburg on Wednesday. WATCH. WATCH: Artist Ayanda Mabulu arrested over 'blame it on the boers' painting Controversial artist Ayanda Mabulu, 37, was arrested outside the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) on Wednesday, following a display of his artwork stating, "blame it on the boers". WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. WATCH: Chinese national shot and wounded, cash stolen in Johannesburg A Chinese national was shot and wounded and cash stolen out of his vehicle when several armed robbers pounced on his car south of Johannesburg yesterday. WATCH: Police threaten to slap man for filming pulled over Lamborghini A resident of Daveyton on the East Rand was threatened by Ekurhuleni metro police on Sunday after he stopped to film footage of a green Lamborghini that had been pulled over by officers. WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. Grave dilemma: S.African cities short of cemetery space In Johannesburg, land is a hot topic, even for the dead. Population growth, migration to urban areas and an influx of foreigners has put huge pressure on land in urban areas. Adding to the problem is a cultural resistance to the practice of cremat... WATCH: Motorist escapes hijacking, reverses into assailants' car Police are on the hunt for four men who were involved in a botched hijacking in the north of Johannesburg, last week. WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg. WATCH: Quick-thinking motorist leaves hijackers empty-handed A video of a failed hijacking attempt in Johannesburg has surfaced on social media on Tuesday. WATCH: CCTV emerges of Sasol garage chaos as thugs target Global Citizens concertgoers What was supposed to be an exciting ending to a day filled with international entertainment, turned out to be a horrific ordeal for concertgoers outside the FNB Stadium in Johannesburg on Sunday evening. WATCH: Celebs walk the red carpet at Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 Local and international celebrities took to the red carpet at the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. Oprah Winfrey honours Mandela ahead of birth centenary concert US television celebrity Oprah Winfrey pays an emotional tribute to Nelson Mandela as she prepares to host a star-studded concert in Johannesburg to cap celebrations marking 100 years since his birth. The concert is the climax of a year of events c... WATCH: Marinda Steyn takes the stand in Krugersdorp murder trial WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State finished its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues cross-examination (Day2/Part2) WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State is continuing its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues cross-examination (Day2/Part1) WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State is continuing its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. WATCH LIVE: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifies | Part 4 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. WATCH LIVE: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifies | Part 3 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues her testimony | Part 2 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. Part 2 | WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifie Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Tuesday WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifies | Part 1 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.
Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. WATCH: Bonang Matheba's pays the taxman, matter struck off roll The Specialized Commercial Crimes Court in Johannesburg has on Tuesday, struck off the roll the tax evasion charges against TV personality and Businesswoman Bonang Matheba. WATCH: Looters target truck trapped by too low bridge The driver of this RTT Intelligent Logistics truck found himself stuck between a bridge he could not pass under and a group of waiting looters late last week. Michael B Jordan walks the red carpet at Creed 2 screening in South Africa Sandton City, Johannesburg was filled with fans on Saturday night as Creed 2 star Michael B Jordan hit the red carpet to promote the upcoming movie. Van straatbakleier tot meesterbakker. Lydon het sy wilde dae agter hom gelaat en in 'n top-restaurant in Linden in Johannesburg 'n meesterbakker geword. WATCH: Video shows biker robbed at gunpoint in Edenvale A motorcyclist was robbed of goods and cash in Edenvale, east of Johannesburg, on the corner of Terrace Road and Smith Avenue on Tuesday. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan wraps up his testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day3 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan wrapped up his testimony at the judicial inquiry into state capture sitting in Johannesburg on Wednesday. Watch. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan wraps up his testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day3 / Part1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan wrapped up his testimony at the judicial inquiry into state capture sitting in Johannesburg on Wednesday. Watch. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day1 / Part3) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: Pravin will destroy Eskom and SAA in order to privatise them - EFF The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) staged a picket outside the State Capture Inquiry on Monday calling for the removal of Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Public Enterprises. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day1 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day 1/Part 1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: 'Pravin lied to our people' – EFF While Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg on Monday, the EFF made its presence known, protesting outside the venue. WATCH: 'WMC agent' Pravin Gordhan not fit to hold office - BLF While Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture in Johannesburg, some Black First Land First (BLF) members demonstrated outside the building. Kwesta, Cassper Nyovest and Nasty C among this celeb barber's famous clientele Celebrity barber Sheldon Tatchell is well-known for cutting the hair of Johannesburg's elite and now The Legends Barbershop will be setting up shop in Cape Town. WATCH: Door of Hope: A new beginning for abandoned babies The Door of Hope organisation has taken care of more than 1500 children since it was established in 1999.

One of the ways they take in children is through the "baby bin" - a hole in the wall were parents can leave their unwanted babies.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.