Sesona Ngqakamba (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The South African Weather Service (SAWS) has warned residents in the eastern part of the country to brace themselves for a stormy voter registration weekend. According to the weather service, affected provinces include Gauteng, Mpumalanga, Limpopo, the north-eastern Free State and western KwaZulu-Natal. "Storms in some of these areas may become severe, producing one or a combination of the following; large hail, abundance of small hail and heavy downpours which could lead to localised flooding and strong damaging winds," it warned in a statement on Thursday. SAWS said the extreme conditions were the result of the presence of an upper air trough over central parts of the country. 'Stay indoors if possible' It warned that roads may be flooded which could disrupt travelling and also possibly damage infrastructure. Members of the public have been advised to stay indoors and keep off the roads if possible. They have also been urged to avoid crossing rivers and swollen streams where water is above the ankle. The weather services also advised those in the affected areas to move their valuables to places that are safe from flooding and to also relocate livestock to higher ground. Read: Final voter registration weekend for 2019 elections "The South African Weather Service will continue to monitor any further developments relating to this weather system and will issue subsequent updates as required," SAWS added. The eastern half of the Eastern Cape, KwaZulu-Natal and the Highveld of Mpumalanga will be cooler on Saturday with cooler air expected to spread through to Gauteng and Limpopo on Sunday, SAWS said.  The Independent Electoral Commission of South Africa told a briefing in Pretoria on Wednesday that January 26 and 27 would be the last time voters can register before the general elections expected to take place in May. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter    WATCH: Weekend hail leaves parts of Pretoria covered in ice Severe weather conditions hit large parts of Gauteng this past weekend after the South African Weather Service (SAWS) issued a notice for severe thunderstorms across the province. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. WATCH: Temperatures to increase after parts of SA experience heavy rain and snowfall South Africans in eastern regions of the country were forced to pack away their shorts and sandals because of icy temperatures. Watch the video above to see snowy scenes across South Africa.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.