Tania Broughton, Correspondent Joburg-born Briton killed in Nairobi hotel attack named as Luke Potter Luke Potter, 40, held dual South African/British citizenship and was in Kenya for the Gatsby Charitable Foundation as its Africa programmes director. Luke Potter. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories One of those killed in the attack on the DusitD2 complex in Nairobi, Kenya, has been named as South African, Luke Potter. Potter, 40, held dual South African/British citizenship and was in Kenya for the Gatsby Charitable Foundation as its Africa programmes director. He worked for the foundation for 10 years, three years of which were in East Africa. "We are deeply shocked and saddened to confirm that Luke Potter was killed in the recent security incident in Nairobi," a statement from Gatsby said. At least 14 confirmed dead in Kenya attack Gunmen blasted their way into a hotel and office complex in the Kenyan capital on Tuesday, killing at least 14 people and sending workers diving under desks to escape an attack claimed by Somalia-based Islamist group al Shabaab. It said Potter had devoted the past 10 years of his career to helping some of the poorest and most vulnerable people in the world. "Luke was instrumental in establishing our forestry programme and team in Kenya, and provided crucial leadership, guidance and support to our Tanzanian forestry programme and our tea programmes in Rwanda and Tanzania," the statement said. Potter was born and schooled in Johannesburg and spent time in Durban. His friend Nan Naidoo said she was devastated by the news. "He was a gentle soul… he was South African born and bred. He loved doing uplifting work for the poor communities. Africa was his calling. He loved working in Africa and had a love and passion for working with people in Africa," Naidoo said. Meanwhile, an American man who also died in the attack, was a consultant who survived the 9/11 attacks, AFP reported. Although authorities didn't formally name Jason Spindler as one of the victims, his mother Sarah and brother Jonathan confirmed his death on Facebook and to several US media outlets. "It's with a heavy heart that I have to report that my brother, Jason Spindler, passed this morning during a terror attack in Nairobi," Jonathan wrote on Facebook, in comments visible only to his friends. "Jason was a survivor of 9-11 and a fighter. I am sure he gave them hell!" KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Somali Islamists claims deadly Kenya hotel attack Gunmen stormed an upscale hotel and office compound in the Kenyan capital Nairobi on Tuesday, killing at least one person in an attack claimed by Islamist militant group al-Shabaab. Gunmen kidnap Italian woman in Kenya An armed gang has abducted an Italian woman from a village in southeast Kenya, shooting and wounding five residents in the raid, police say. Guesthouse where gunmen abducted Italian woman on Kenya coast Images of the guesthouse in a village in southeastern Kenya where an armed gang abducted an Italian woman on Tuesday evening. The gang shot and wounded five residents in the raid, police say.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.