Kamva Somdyala WATCH: Residents cry for help as man shot dead in Durban road A 32-year-old male suspect will appear in court on a charge of murder on Tuesday after a video shows Chatsworth community members crowding around a dead body in the street. A 32-year-old man is expected to appear in court in Chatsworth for murder after handing himself over to police in connection with the shooting of a man in the area. While the details of the shooting are unknown, a video was circulated on Facebook showing several visibly distressed community members around the dead body of the deceased. The man also handed in a firearm which was believed to have been used in the shooting. Police spokesperson Major Thulani Zwane said the firearm would be sent for ballistics testing. Zwane told News24 that the shooting occurred on Sunday. In the video, it was suggested that the deceased was a drug dealer - something which Zwane was unable to confirm. "The deceased is believed to be in his mid-30s but at this stage, it is unclear what the motive for the shooting was," said Zwane. "Information will come to light as we continue our investigation. "We will get witness statements to shed more light on the motive and we call on any other members of the community who witnessed the murder to come forward so we can get more statements for our investigation." The man who was arrested is expected to appear in the Chatsworth Magistrate's Court later on Tuesday. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Train stabbing suspect arrested Police hunting a knifeman who murdered a train passenger in Surrey in front of his 14-year-old son have arrested a suspect

The man was detained at an address in the Farnham area at around 6am on Saturday on suspicion of murder. A 27-year-old woma... Sadiq Khan:'There can be no justification for this homicide' Sadiq Khan says "there can be no justification" for Jayden Moody's murder Man charged with murder in death of Texas girl Harris County Sheriff Ed Gonzalez announced Sunday that prosecutors had arrested and charged 20-year-old Eric Black Jr. with capital murder in the death of 7-year-old Jazmine Barnes on Dec. 30. Gonzalez says a second suspect has been identified. Mask of Deception Are dangerous substances in our food supply and the over consumption of certain food substances killing us? Is our diet one of the main underlying causes of most life threatening and disabling diseases in western society today? Cystic fibrosis patient's heartfelt awareness raising campaign released after her death A cystic fibrosis patient's heartfelt awareness raising campaign is to be released after she lost her battle to the disease. Fashion designer Kate Spade dies aged 55 Chelsea Clinton has led the tributes to American fashion designer Kate Spade, who has died aged 55. In aging Japan, abandoned burial urns pile up Unclaimed urns containing ashes of the dead are piling up by the thousands across Japan, as a greying population and economic pressures fray family ties. Avicii's family arrive in Oman to repatriate body Following the sudden and tragic passing of Swedish DJ Avicii, his immediate family have traveled to Oman, where the music maker was vacationing when he died. His family have arrived to repatriate his body this week, following two postmortem that h... Mama Julia proves many good tune played on old fiddle even at 117 Julia Flores Colque, known to locals as "Mama Julia", is a tender 117 years of age, making her a "supercentenarian". The 117-year-old lives with her last remaining relatives, her niece and her niece's husband, who look after her in her old age. Th... Police launch murder probe after death at London apartment block Bethany-Maria Beales, 22, died at The Heron apartment building after suffering injuries consistent with a fall from a height on May 26. Police have launched a murder investigation into her death. Old, not ill: scientist opts for Swiss suicide A 104-year-old Australian scientist has ended his own life by assisted suicide in Switzerland. The scientist was not terminally ill, but said he suffered from deteriorating health. Kit Harington nearly died as a child Kit Harington was "seconds" away from death when he got into difficulties in a swimming pool when he was just four years old. Sir Ken Dodd: Wife pays tribute to deceased entertainer Lady Anne Dodd pays tribute to her late husband, entertainer Sir Ken Dodd who has died aged 90.

The Liverpudlian was best known for his "tattyfilarious" comedic performances. Death of Mac Miller: Twitter tributes Stars pay tribute to rapper Mac Miller, who has died aged 26. Rapper Mac Miller dead at 26 Rapper Mac Miller has died aged 26. Miller, real name Malcolm James McCormick, was found at his California home. US media are reporting the star died from an apparent overdose. Celebrities react to Peter Stringfellow's death Piers Morgan and Tony Blackburn are among the stars who have paid tribute to nightclub owner Peter Stringfellow, who has died aged 77. Twitter reacts to Ken Dodd's death Twitter users have been reacting to the death of entertainer Sir Ken Dodd, who has died aged 90. SUV crashes into river during police chase, 3 dead SUV crashes into river during police chase, 3 dead Jayme's Aunt: 'I was counting everyday' The aunt of the Wisconsin teenager who disappeared after her parents were killed in the family's home expressed joy and held back tears as she described receiving the news from authorities that her niece had been found. Negresco hotel will endure after owner's death, say Nice locals The flamboyant owner of the seafront Negresco hotel in the French city of Nice died at the age of 95 on Tuesday, plunging the future of the pink-domed Riviera landmark into uncertainty. But locals and those who knew her say the hotel will live on. Gdansk locals in shock after brutal public murder of mayor Gdansk locals pray after the shocking public murder of their mayor Pawel Adamowicz. The Polish politician, who had been mayor for more than 20 years, was brutally stabbed in front of crowds of people at a fundraising charity event and died in hosp... Beans Carolyn seeks the answer to an age old question - do beans really cause flatulence? Guatemalan community bids goodbye to deceased migrant girl The coffin of seven-year-old Jakelin Caal is put on display in her grandparents' house in Guatemala as family members and neighbours attend a wake for the young girl who died in US custody. With murder rate rising, how do Venezuelans survive? As if coping with constant food and medicine shortages were not enough for crisis-weary Venezuelans, many live in constant fear in a country where three people die violently every hour. AP Top Stories January 3 Here's the latest for Thursday January 3rd: China lands spacecraft on far side of moon; Democrats take over House today as shutdown continues; Man in court charged with murder of California police officer; Bus overturns in Mississippi. How the Murder of 132 Slaves Helped End the Slave Trade The history of slavery is full of heartless and cruel stories, but one heinous case forced the action needed to end the British slave trade. Three guilty of murder over Leicester shop explosion Three men who killed five people in a "bomb-like" shop blast have been convicted of murder and plotting to claim a GBP300,000 insurance pay-out. WATCH: 7-year-old caught on camera stealing cellphone A video of a young child stealing a cellphone from a hair salon in Chatsworth, near Durban has gone viral online. Suspect held after man stabbed to death on train A suspect is arrested in connection to the Surrey train murder investigation China's Didi slammed after driver murders woman China says its largest ride-hailing firm Didi Chuxing had “unshirkable responsibility” for a carpool passenger being raped and killed by a driver. WATCH: Brother of slain Durban businessman says they will not accept an apology "We won't accept an apology from a hitman," said the family of a Durban businessman whose murder was caught on camera in August.

Kidesh Ramjettan was killed execution style in August in a hit at his petrol station in Rossburgh, south of Durban. Police charge man in Canada shooting Police charged 48-year-old Matthew Vincent Raymond with four counts of first degree murder in the deaths of four people, including two police officers, and identified the civilians killed in a shooting on Friday in the eastern Canadian city of Fre... Dellen Millard given third life sentence for father’s murder Twice-convicted murderer Dellen Millard was handed a third life sentence on Tuesday for the murder of his father, Wayne Millard. Crown attorney Jill Cameron says the public should be relieved that Millard “will not see the light of day.” Alleged serial killer Bruce McArthur charged with seventh murder Alleged serial killer Bruce McArthur is facing a seventh first-degree murder charge, as Toronto police say the remains of three more men have been identified. McArthur was charged Wednesday in the death of Abdulbasir Faizi. Conservative motion to demand reversal of McClintic transfer The Conservatives say they will table a motion next week demanding the Liberals reverse and condemn Terri-Lynne McClintic’s transfer to a healing lodge. McClintic is serving a life sentence the first-degree murder of Tori Stafford. Crown seeking life sentence for Millard in death of father Dellen Millard has been found guilty of first-degree murder in the death of his 71-year-old father, Wayne Millard. The family of Laura Babcock, who Millard was previously convicted of killing, says the trial was a “difficult ordeal.” #ReleaseMartha: Son of murdered husband threatens to take matters into own hands Relatives of Martha Marumo's deceased husband say if she receives a presidential pardon for the murder of Clitus Marumo, "something is going to happen". Ohio family face death penalty for 'execution-style' murders Four members of a rural Ohio family are facing the death penalty after they killed eight members of a different family. Chicago cop sentenced to more than six years for Laquan McDonald murder A judge sentences former Chicago police officer Jason Van Dyke to more than six years in prison, after a jury found him guilty of murder last year in the 2014 shooting of black teenager Laquan McDonald. Colorado man gets life for murders of pregnant wife, kids Thirty-three-year-old Christopher Watts was sentenced to life without parole on Monday for strangling his pregnant wife, smothering their two young daughters and dumping their bodies in an oil field so he could pursue a romantic affair. Colette Luke has more. White nationalist faces 10 years for VA attack A white nationalist accused of beating a black man in a Charlottesville parking garage last summer has been found guilty for his role in the attack. Alleged Charlottesville killer faces federal hate crimes James Alex Fields Jr., the man accused of driving his car into a crowd of protesters, killing 32 year-old Heather Heyer in Virginia last year, pleads not guilty during his first appearance in court. Court video shows Millard interview hours after father found dead The trial of a twice-convicted killer accused of murdering his father has seen a police interview conducted hours after Wayne Millard was found dead in his Toronto home. Dellen Millard has pleaded not guilty to first-degree murder. Man convicted of trying to kill wife by tampering with parachute An Army sergeant has been found guilty of attempting to murder his wife by tampering with her parachute and sabotaging a gas valve at their home. Surviving insecurity: empty streets in murder capital, Caracas As their country goes through a deep crisis, Venezuelans must develop strategies to face rampant insecurity. Residents steer clear of public spaces at night in the capital, as streets and restaurants remain largely empty. Ex-officer in Australian’s death appears in court Prosecutors say there's been no discussions of a plea deal in the case of an Australian woman killed by a Minnesota police officer although Mohamed Noor is expected to plead 'not guilty'. WI man confesses to kidnapping teen: authorities 21-year-old Jake Patterson appeared in a Wisconsin court on Monday after he told authorities he kidnapped 13-year-old Jayme Closs after killing her parents in their home and then reportedly held the girl hostage for three months before she escaped. Prosecutor: fight preceded Texas girl's shooting A prosecutor says a drive-by shooting that killed a 7-year-old Houston girl happened after two men mistook the car she was in for one belonging to individuals they had fought with at a club hours earlier.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.