Catesby Holmes Anti-government protesters create a burning roadblock in the Cotiza neighbourhood of Caracas, Venezuela. (Fernando Llano, AP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Just days after Venezuela’s authoritarian President Nicolás Maduro survived a Jan. 21 military coup attempt, the leader of Venezuela’s opposition-dominated legislature declared himself the country’s interim president. “I swear to formally assume the powers of the national executive as president in charge of Venezuela,” Juan Guaidó said on Jan. 23 as he took the oath of office on a copy of the constitution before thousands of supporters in Caracas. The opposition’s move to sideline Maduro came after a weekend of deadly protests demanding the president’s resignation, the first real popular uprising since security forces violently quashed a powerful opposition protest movement in 2017. “Let’s swear as brothers that we won’t rest until we gain freedom,” Guaidó told the crowd, asking them to raise their right hands along with him. The United States, Canada, Peru, Colombia and several other countries are supporting Guaidó, saying the legislature is the only democratically elected branch remaining in Venezuela’s government. But Maduro is refusing to step down. The internal power struggle has deepened turmoil in a country already reeling from simultaneous economic, political and humanitarian crises. How did Venezuela end up with two presidents? Here’s what you need to know. Maduro has become more autocratic and governed increasingly erratically since taking office in 2013 as Hugo Chávez’s successor. His re-election as president in May 2018 – when Maduro won 68 percent of the vote despite having an approval rating of just 21 percent – was widely declared fraudulent. “The ruling Socialist Party used all the power of its increasingly authoritarian regime to tip the May 2018 election in Maduro’s favour,” writes Miguel Angel Latouche, a professor at the Central University of Venezuela. “For months, the regime coerced citizens to register as Socialist Party members, traded food for votes and blacklisted opposition candidates,” he writes. The government also called the elections several months early, preventing the opposition from organising successful campaigns. As electoral irregularities mounted, the opposition called on Venezuelans to boycott the presidential election. “Fewer than half of Venezuela’s registered voters participated in the South American country’s May 2018 election, punishing a government they don’t support by simply not voting,” writes Latouche. Maduro was nonetheless re-elected as president of Venezuela by a wide margin. His opponent, Henri Falcón, challenged the result, saying it “lacked legitimacy.” Some 50 other countries agreed with Falcón’s judgment, refusing to recognise Maduro as Venezuela’s rightful president. The United States and Europe passed harsh sanctions to punish his government. In the months after his re-election, Maduro also survived an attempted coup, repeated calls by international leaders for a foreign military overthrow of his government and an assassination attempt by drone. By late 2018, Maduro was heading a “cash-strapped rogue regime facing international condemnation and humanitarian crisis,” write Andrea Oelsner and Federico Merke, of Argentina’s San Andres University. Yet Maduro’s grip on power remained strong for several reasons, say Oelsner and Merke. Money is one major factor. Venezuela’s government is bankrupt, but Maduro “commands more than enough state resources to avoid a coup,” say Oelsner and Merke. “For years, the president has purchased the loyalty of Venezuela’s armed forces.” The Ministry of Defense has now been put in charge of importing, producing, selling and distributing all food in Venezuela – a lucrative black market business in a country where people are starving. Maduro has also “stacked his cabinet with generals,” Oelsner and Merke write, personally investing the military brass in his government’s survival. The suffering of the Venezuelan people has actually helped Maduro, too, Oelsner and Merke find. Between 2015 and 2017, Venezuelans lost, on average, 20 pounds, according to one 2017 study. Over 1 million people have fled the country in recent years, migrating to Colombia, Brazil, Ecuador and the US. Those who who remain “must devote hours every day just to finding food,” Oelsner and Merke write. “Starvation and endless food queues do not leave much time or energy for political resistance.” The opposition’s unilateral declaration of Guaidó as Venezuela’s interim president is just its latest effort to unseat Maduro. There are only so many ways to democratically deal with authoritarian presidents, according to Venezuela expert David Smilde: Vote them out of office, protest until they resign or make demands through face-to-face dialogue. “Venezuelans have tried all three” since 2015, Smilde writes. Now, the domestic power struggle gripping Venezuela could embolden Maduro’s international critics to take more drastic steps. Even before Maduro’s contested re-election, President Donald Trump had floated the idea of a military invasion to overthrow his government. “Venezuela is not very far away and the people are suffering, and they are dying,” said Trump in August 2017. “We have many options for Venezuela, including a possible military option if necessary.” Several exiled Venezuela leaders have since embraced the idea. “Military intervention by a coalition of regional forces may be the only way to end a man-made famine threatening millions of lives,” the former Venezuelan planning minister and Harvard professor Ricardo Hausmann wrote in January 2018. In the view of “military option” supporters, Venezuelans would welcome a foreign intervention if it restored democracy. That’s likely wrong, Smilde’s research shows. Smilde asked the Venezuelan polling firm Datanálisis to ask several questions about about options for leadership change in its November 2018 nationwide poll. Only 35% of respondents said they would support “a foreign military intervention to remove President Maduro from his position”. More than half would reject such an operation. “All credible polling in Venezuela says that most Venezuelans desperately want Maduro out,” Smilde writes. But, he cautions, “that does not necessarily mean they are open to desperate measures.” So what do Venezuelans want? According to the Datanálisis survey, 63% would support “a negotiated settlement to remove President Maduro from power”. Smilde says that makes negotiations by far the most popular option for restoring democracy in Venezuela. This article is a round-up of stories from The Conversation’s archives. Catesby Holmes, Global Affairs Editor, The Conversation This article is republished from The Conversation under a Creative Commons license. Read the original article.  Maduro announces closure of Venezuela embassy in United States Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro announces he is closing Venezuela's embassy and consulates in the US, stepping up his diplomatic row with the United States after receiving renewed backing from the country's powerful military high command. Violence flares in Venezuela amid 2 power claims Anti-government unrest rocks Venezuela, where a young opposition leader and the South American nation’s socialist president both claim to be head of state Aftermath of deadly protests in Caracas Venezuelans react to the aftermath of protests in Caracas, which left the streets in havoc after demonstrators clashed with police, resulting in at least 16 people dead. Is Venezuela on the verge of a coup d'état? The Venezuelan government and the opposition are measuring their support on the streets of Venezuela this Wednesday after a few days on the edge of the abyss Pompeo to OAS: Maduro regime is 'illegitimate' Secretary of State Mike Pompeo told OAS members that "the regime of former President Nicolas Maduro is illegitimate," and he called on them to recognize National Assembly President Juan Guaido as the interim president of Venezuela. The Brief from Brussels: Venezuela, climate march, yellow vests Today's top stories in Europe Jeremy Hunt: Juan Guaidó is the right person for Venezuela Jeremy Hunt says he's "extremely concerned" about the situation in Venezuela Venezuela's opposition leader claims power Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaido, backed by the Trump administration, has declared himself an "interim president". President Nicolas Maduro has retaliated by breaking off relations with the US. #Venezuela #Maduro #Guaido Violence flares during Venezuela demonstrations Venezuelans are heading into uncharted political waters with the young leader of a newly united and combative opposition claiming to hold the presidency and socialist President Nicolas Maduro digging in for a fight with the Trump administration. Venezuelan opposition declares parallel government Venezuela's opposition leader Juan Guaido took an oath swearing himself in as the country's interim president as Venezuelans marched to demand the end of socialist President Nicolas Maduro's government. UN chief urges dialogue in Venezuela to avoid 'disaster' UN chief Antonio Guterres appeals for dialogue in Venezuela to avoid the political crisis spiralling out of control, after opposition leader Juan Guaido declared himself interim president. Venezuelans at World Youth Day hope for political change As Venezuela's political crisis deepens, Venezuelan pilgrims at the Catholic World Youth Day festivities in Panama, being attended by Pope Francis, are hoping for things to take a better turn in their country. Anti-Maduro demonstrations turn violent in Caracas Large crowds of protesters gathered in Caracas waving flags and chanting "Get out Maduro" in what was shaping up to be the largest demonstration since a wave of unrest that left more than 120 dead in 2017. Papal motorcade swerves to avoid man waving Venezuelan flag The car driving Pope Francis swerves sharply to avoid a young man who broke through a barrier and ran towards it, waving a Venezuelan flag. Thousands of Venezuelans gather for anti-government protest Thousands of Venezuelans march through the streets of Caracas for an anti-government protest, called by the president of the opposition-led National Assembly, Juan Guaido, on the day marking the end of the 1958 military dictatorship. Protesters in Venezuela commandeer a truck as hundreds cheer Anti-government protesters in Venezuelan commandeer a truck in Caracas as hundreds look on and cheer, on a day when the US, Canada and several major South American nations recognized the head of Venezuela's opposition-controlled legislature as the... Venezuela's Maduro expels US delegation Venezuela's President Nicolas Maduro gives 72 hours to US delegation to leave the country, after US President Donald Trump recognized Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaido as the country's interim president. Trump: 'Not Suprised' Pelosi delayed SOTU address President Donald Trump was ambiguous when addressed the political crisis in Venezuela Wednesday saying, "all options are on the table." He also said he's "not surprised" by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's delay of his State of the Union address. Venezuela's Maduro breaks diplomatic relations with US Venezuela's President Nicolas Maduro says he is breaking diplomatic ties with the United States, after US President Donald Trump recognized Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guadio as the country's interim president. Protesters clash with police in Venezuela on day of mass protest Anti-government protesters clash with Venezuelan police, as tens of thousand of people jammed the streets of Caracas in an outpouring of support for Nicolas Maduro's ouster amid a dire economic crisis that has devastated the once rich oil-producin... Mass protest against Venezuela's Maduro Thousands protest in Venezuela's capital in a bid to topple President Nicolas Maduro's government. Venezuelans in Colombia protest against Maduro at the border Venezuelan migrants living in Colombia protest against the government of President Nicolas Maduro during a march that ended in a prayer for peace and freedom for their country on the Simon Bolivar International Bridge, at the border between the tw... Anti-government protesters gather in Caracas against Maduro Thousands of Venezuelans gather for an anti-government protest in Caracas, called by the president of the opposition-led National Assembly, Juan Guaido, on the day marking the end of the 1958 military dictatorship. Protests in Venezuela after arrest of anti-Maduro soldiers Protesters demonstrate in Caracas after a group of soldiers was arrested for rising up against Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro. Protesters in Caracas demonstrate after reported mutiny Protesters demonstrate in front of the Cotiza Bolivarian National Guard headquarters in Caracas, Venezuela, after a group of soldiers was arrested after rising up against Venezuela's President Nicolas Maduro. Civil unrest in Caracas, Venezuela, after reported mutiny Protesters demonstrate in front of the Cotiza Bolivarian National Guard headquarters in Caracas, Venezuela, after a group of soldiers was arrested after rising up against Venezuela's President Nicolas Maduro. Venezuela's Maduro arrives to Constituent Assembly for speech President Nicolas Maduro arrives at the Constituent Assembly to deliver his first speech since taking office for a second six-year mandate in crisis-hit Venezuela. Venezuela's opposition says Maduro is not their president Rafaela Requesens, a member of the Venezuelan opposition, speaks during an extraordinary session held in front of the Organization of American States (OAS) headquarters in Caracas, saying that they do not recognize Nicolas Maduro as the country's ... Defying critics, Venezuela's Maduro starts new term Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro started a second term on Thursday, defying critics in the United States and Latin America who called him an illegitimate usurper of a nation where economic chaos has wrought a humanitarian crisis. Havovi Cooper rep 'We will win' tweets Venezuela's Maduro before being sworn in Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro tweets he assumes "with greater responsibility and commitment" his second six-year mandate, shortly before the swearing-in ceremony at the Supreme Court. Venezuela's Nicolas Maduro arrives for swearing-in ceremony Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro arrives at the Supreme Court for his swearing-in ceremony that will lead him on a second six-year term as the head of the crisis-hit country. Leaders arrive for Venezuela's Maduro swearing-in ceremony (2) Cuba's Miguel Diaz-Canel and Bolivia's Evo Morales arrive at the Supreme Court ahead of the swearing-in ceremony that will give Nicolas Maduro a second 6-year term at the head of crisis-hit Venezuela. Venezuela in crisis: Public salary 'is not enough' to live on As Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro gets ready to assume a second term, the country continues to struggle with a multitude of issues, including inflation, which the IMF predicts will reach a mind-boggling 10 million percent this year -- making ... Venezuela in crisis: health situation 'worst' in history As Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro gets ready to assume a second term, the country continues to struggle with a multitude of issues, including a broken health system, which some are calling the "worst" in Venezuela's history. Venezuela's parliament rejects legitimacy of Maduro second term Venezuela's National Assembly rejects the legitimacy of Nicolas Maduro's second term, with assembly president Juan Guaido saying that if Maduro assumes his new mandate on January 10, he will be "usurping" the presidency. Iran says its navy will deploy to the Atlantic, again Iran's navy has announced it will deploy warships to the Atlantic Ocean in an act of defiance against the United States. Tehran has issued similar warnings in recent years with unclear effect. Matthew Larotonda reports Lima Group meeting over Venezuela starts in Peru Foreign ministers from Latin America and Canada meet in the Peruvian capital on ways to step up pressure on Venezuela's socialist regime to coincide with the second-term inauguration of President Nicolas Maduro next week. Venezuela cocoa growers fear new pest: the government Venezuela cocoa trader Freddy Galindo has battled highway robberies and declining bean quality in his 19 years exporting the nation's legendary beans. But this year's harvest brought a new worry: meddling by the socialist government. Meet a Local: Bogota, Colombia Juan Felipe knows the loveliest spots in this city with its 8 million residents, from the Barrio la Candelaria, to the Plaza Bolivar, to Mount Monserrate - 3,100 meters above sea level - with the best view of Bogota. Chavez hometown languishes after 20 years of revolution Deserted streets and closed stores surround the imposing statue of late Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez in his birthplace of Sabaneta, 20 years after the enigmatic figure launched the country's revolution. But Sabaneta, in Barinas State, has not ... Colombians honour migrants who fled crisis-hit Venezuela In the streets and parks of three Colombian cities, the photos of the faces of some of the thousands of Venezuelan migrants and refugees who are now trying to make a living outside their country are on display. Greenpeace protest to stop oil and gas exploration in Amazonia Greenpeace Brazil protests to demand the National Agency of Petroleum, Natural Gas and Biofuels (ANP) suspend its sale of eighty lots in the Amazonia for gas and oil exploration. Some of the areas are very close to protected reserves such as Tarum... Raising cattle a risky business for Venezuelan ranchers Rotting hides on the road are all that is left of Jose Labrador's three butchered cows. Such carnage is common in Venezuela's cattle country, where thieves, squatters and government policy are threatening a vital food resource. Venezuelan prisoners find in rugby a way to reintegrate society Thanks to a program started more than a decade ago to rehabilitate young gang members, inmates from 13 of Venezuela's most dangerous prisons play rugby as a way to leave behind bad habits and reintegrate into society. Venezuela's Maduro to head to Russia to meet with Putin Standing in front of his presidential plane, Venezuela's Nicolas Maduro announces he is headed to Moscow to meet with his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin, for "an essential business visit".   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.