Cally Ballack Some children have been turned away from “no-fee” schools because their parents cannot pay an upfront fee. (File photo: Ashraf Hendricks, GroundUp) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Some "no-fee" schools are insisting parents pay once-off fees - turning away Grade R pupils whose parents can't afford to pay, GroundUp reports. South African schools are divided into five categories, known as quintiles. The quintiles range from the poorest to the least poor, with quintile 1 being the poorest 20% of schools in the country. Quintile 5 covers the least poor public schools and parents of children who go to schools in quintiles 4 and 5 are expected to pay school fees. Schools in quintiles 1 to 3 are no-fee schools, which means parents do not pay school fees. If school governing bodies introduce fees in a public school and parents are unable to pay, the school cannot deny pupils admission. READ: School fees and exemptions — what you need to know R400 for the child's Grade R graduation The parent of a child at Solomon Mahlangu Primary School in Khayelitsha told GroundUp that when she and her child arrived at the school for registration, she was told she had to pay R400 for the child's Grade R graduation in November. "I asked to pay half of the money then and the rest of it at the end of the month but they said no… The school told me I couldn't take my child to school without a slip of payment," said the parent. She had to borrow R400 so that her child could start school. A volunteer parent at Equal Education, Vuyokazi Bobotyane, said she had visited the school to find out why parents of Grade R pupils were turned away if they were unable to pay R400 upfront. She said the principal told her that the school governing body decided the fee should be paid at the beginning of the year for Grade R graduation at the end of the year - and that children would be admitted to the school when parents paid. Arrangements can be made When GroundUp contacted the school, Nombulelo Davane a staff member, confirmed that pupils had to pay R400 and said if parents could not afford the amount, they should "speak to the principal and give the money on a certain date". Jessica Shelver, spokesperson for Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schafer, confirmed that no-fee paying schools were not allowed to ask parents to pay any form of registration or upfront fee. She said some schools might ask for donations but this should be completely voluntary. Shelver added that if parents were turned away for not being able to pay a fee at a no-fee school, "they should contact the district office". The parent of a child at Soyisile Primary School in Khayelitsha said that parents were made to pay R200 before their children were admitted to Grade R this week. She was told that this fee was for a chair in the school for her child. "I said I don't have R200 and then they said I must come back when I do. So I went back home and borrowed R200 and then they allowed my child to be admitted," said the parent. ALSO READ: Court says school may suspend pupil over unpaid fees No word yet from Soyisile Primary School GroundUp tried to contact Soyisile Primary School by phone last week and on Monday but could not reach anyone. Bobotyane said that most of these parents did not have the money because it was mid-January and some of them were waiting for their social grants. Daphne Erosi, a community liaison officer for Equal Education, said that she had been in touch with seven no-fee schools in the Western Cape where children had been expected to pay fees. Some children whose parents could not afford to pay had still not returned to school. "Some kids are still waiting for month end and one parent I know had to borrow money because her child was crying. She had to explain to her child that she was waiting for money and it was heartbreaking. It is not sitting well with me," said Erosi. Section 41 (7) of the South African Schools Act stipulates that no learner may be deprived of their right to "participate in all aspects of the programme of a public school, despite the non-payment of school fees". KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: This father says outsourcing at Eskom is hurting his kids' future When Tshepang's* first child was born, he dropped out of school to seek work. He has worked as a contractor at various state entities. His current contract sees his salary filtered through two labour broking companies before it reaches him. WATCH: Cape pupil awarded for matriculating after surviving deadly fire Lance Minnies came close to losing his life in a deadly 2016 fire and almost gave up on his studies when he recovered. But it was the hope for a better future and the support of caring people at his school that pulled him through. WATCH: Grade 1 pupil gets ready for big school Starting Grade 1 is a big step for little ones. For Luca (6), getting ready for school took quite some time on Wednesday morning, but he soon got into the swing of things. WATCH: This 30-year-old family business is a school hotspot for Joburg families Gauteng schools open on Wednesday and parents are on the hunt for affordable school uniforms. WATCH: 127 inmates receive qualifications at inspirational graduation ceremony The Department of Correctional Services handed out 127 qualifications, including one master's degree, to graduating offenders on Friday. Watch the video above. WATCH: Limpopo matriculant comes out tops despite textbook, computer shortage Dimpho Phalane, a matriculant at Mampotjane Secondary School in Limpopo, could barely contain her excitement when she realised she was one of the country's top achievers. From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg. WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.