Jenni Evans Houw Hoek fire (Overstrand Municipality, Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Another fire flared up in the Western Cape on Thursday - this time near the busy Houw Hoek Pass on the N2 - just as crews packed up after last week's devastating blaze in the region. Working on Fire (WOF) spokesperson Lauren Howard said the latest fire was in the Bot River/Houw Hoek Pass area. "We have firefighters there," said Howard. So far, evacuations have not been called for but Overberg and Overstrand fire services personnel were going to help put the fire out. The Overstrand Fire Protection Agency posted on Facebook that the wildfire was burning out of control. "Fire services are supported by landowners, Overstrand and lots of aerial resources," said the update. The Overstrand municipality said the N2 was still open for traffic and that provincial traffic officers were on the scene to monitor the road because the smoke was affecting visibility.  #Houwhoek #wildfire 17/1/19 - Overstrand Traffic Update @ 14:00This fire is currently burning out of control.N2 at Houw Hoek still OPEN to traffic. The region was just recovering from devastating fires in Betty's Bay and Hermanus's Hemel-en-Aarde Valley. The Overstrand fires have been raging since New Year's Day. At least 31 homes were destroyed and 28 were damaged. PICS: Betty's Bay residents recall 'panic' as fire inched closer to homes WATCH: Fire rescue Bambi trotting on the road to recovery At just a few months old, a rescued baby Cape Grysbok has touched the hearts of the many residents of the Cape overstrand area, which has recently been underthreat by a devastating fire for two weeks. 'The fire was higher than the roof here'- Hermanus farmer "Camphill, you've got 30 minutes until that fire is on you." These were the chilling words that came through as a Hermanus farm community, housing 54 intellectually disabled patients, was forced to evacuate. WATCH: Betty's Bay fire victim shares heartbreaking experience of the blaze A Betty's Bay resident has spoken out about the trauma of losing her home in a fire that raged through the town at the weekend. WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. WATCH: Western Cape firefighters end gruelling day with uplifting song A group of firefighters returned to their base at the Crassula hall in Betty's Bay on Friday, with song and dance. WATCH: Overstrand fire rages on Air support has been brought in to battle a large fire in the Overstrand area in the Western Cape. The fire has devastated areas close to Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.