Riaan Grobler SA police. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Police operations in Gauteng at the weekend led to the arrest of over 900 suspects for a variety of crimes. In addition, 20 taxis were impounded, police spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubela said in a statement. "Crime-prevention and combating interventions by police in Gauteng are gaining momentum as intelligence-driven operations, stop-and-search operations, and other routine policing activations become the order of the day in the province. "The latest arrest of over 900 suspects; and the impounding of taxis that are noncompliant with road legislation, can be attributed to valuable information provided by the community to the police, as police continue to stamp the authority of the state," Makhubela said. In one incident this past weekend, police responded to information of a cellphone shop robbery around Parkview Mall. The robbers were pointed out while driving a white Kia Rio that sped away, leading to a chase that saw police intercepting the suspects in Berea when the suspects’ vehicle allegedly hit a pole and came to a standstill. Read: 4 suspects arrested after shootout, attempted kidnapping in Rosebank, Joburg Three suspects, one of them armed, fled, while two were trapped inside the vehicle and later certified dead by paramedics. The circumstances surrounding the death of the two suspects are yet to be confirmed. In a separate incident in Kliptown, police were stopped by a man who was hijacked in Randfontein and dropped off after two days. Police followed up on information and recovered the hijacked vehicle during routine patrols in Jabavu, Soweto. One suspect was arrested. "The suspects arrested this past weekend for crimes including murder, rape, robbery, hijackings, possession of unlicensed firearms, dealing in drugs, possession of stolen motor vehicles, theft, and drinking-and-driving, were arrested in various parts of Gauteng, including Tembisa, Hillbrow, Johannesburg Central, Meadowlands, Randfontein and other areas. "All suspects will be appearing in the various magistrate’s courts in Gauteng soon," Makhubela said. #sapsGP Police impound 20 taxis and arrest more than 900 suspects during weekend operations in various parts of Gauteng. #PoliceVisibility #FightingCrime MEhttps://t.co/b9cff1vaxl pic.twitter.com/wBP7Rz4b2H  WATCH: Police chopper corners home robber on N1 Motorists on the N1 south in Johannesburg, South Africa had their commute interrupted on Thursday as police flooded the motorway, to arrest a fleeing house robber. WATCH: Police arrest multiple suspects during drugs and stolen good raid Police arrested several suspects in a crime bust in Johannesburg on Thursday. WATCH. WATCH Police on the hunt for Tshwane CBD muggers.mp4 Video footage has surfaced of a group of men mugging a woman in the Tshwane CBD. Her terrified screams echo through the busy street. The ordeal is over in mere seconds.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.