Correspondent The scene where 13 people were injured following a taxi rollover in Johannesburg on Wednesday.  (ER24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Thirteen people were injured when a minibus taxi rolled on the corner of Malibongwe Drive and Kapital Street in North Riding, Johannesburg, on Wednesday evening. When ER24 paramedics arrived at the scene shortly after 18:30, they found some of the patients seated and some were walking around. "Most of the patients were found to have sustained injuries ranging from minor to moderate. One patient was found lying on the ground and had sustained serious injuries," ER24 spokesperson Ineke van Huyssteen said. ER24, as well as various other medical services on the scene, transported the patients to various hospitals for further medical care. The exact circumstances regarding the incident were not known. Local authorities were on the scene.   WATCH: Bakkie careens down Bo-Kaap hill, narrowly misses woman A woman narrowly escaped injury as a bakkie came careening down a hill in the Bo-Kaap. Video footage of the incident surfaced online recently.

According to ER24, the incident happened on Tuesday, October 16. Woman in critical condition after Audi horror crash A woman is in a critical condition after the Audi she was traveling in veered off the road, became airborne and slammed into a sign post, emergency services have said. WATCH: Trains collide at Mountain View station in Pretoria One person has been confirmed dead, while scores of others have been left injured following a train collision at Mountain View station, Pretoria on Tuesday morning. WATCH: Emergency personnel working to free people trapped under collided trains At least three people have been confirmed dead, while scores of others have been left injured following a train collision at Mountain View station, Pretoria on
Tuesday morning. Toddler tumbles out of moving vehicle in Minn. Authorities in Minnesota say a 2-year-old child is OK after tumbling from the back seat of a moving vehicle while still strapped in a car seat. Idris Elba issues desperate plea to knife-wielding teens Idris Elba has reacted to the recent pictures of paramedics and police tending to victims of a mass stabbing involving 30 teenagers on an estate in South London, and he's made a plea to the youth in the city. Meet the mother-and-son team working as London Ambulance paramedics Linda Cray has worked in the London Ambulance Service since 1982 - and has spent the last four years working alongside her son, Darran. Teen shot, covered with sheet, but still alive Police say a Chicago teen presumed dead and covered with a sheet after he was shot in the head was still alive and died a day later. Skiier Bode Miller's daughter drowns in pool The 19-month-old daughter of U.S. Olympic skier Bode Miller drowned in a pool in California, the athlete announced on Monday afternoon. Murder probe launched after man found stabbed in west London A murder investigation has been launched after a man was found with multiple stab wounds in west London.

Scotland Yard said officers and paramedics were called to the scene on Cathcart Road, Kensington, at just after 10.20pm on Wednesday. Florida shooting: 'I heard five pops' Paramedics treat the injured on the street as other students are marched to safety by armed police. Duke and Duchess of Cambridge perform communications exercise at paramedic training centre The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge visit Coventry University to open a GBP59 million training centre for nurses, midwives and paramedics.

William and Kate will tour the institution's new science and health building during a day in the city.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.