Kyle Cowan Dr Khotso De Wee (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The
secretary to the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, Dr Khotso
de Wee, has been placed on special leave pending the outcome of an
investigation into allegations that he was paid bribes by Bosasa. FOLLOW THE LIVE UPDATE De Wee has denied the allegations,
which are made in an affidavit by former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo
Agrizzi. Agrizzi is currently giving
evidence before the commission. WATCH: Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson emerges as 'kingpin of bribes' Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson has emerged as the absolute kingpin in the Bosasa empire of bribes, intimidation and cold hard cash. Implicated News24 first revealed that De Wee
would be implicated by Agrizzi on Friday morning. In a statement issued after lunch
on Friday, Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo confirmed that when he became
aware of the allegations against De Wee, he had approached him. "De Wee confirmed that he
was the chief operations officer of the Department of Justice and Constitutional
Development in 2013," the statement reads. "However, he has informed me
that he was never at any stage paid any money by Bosasa or anybody from Bosasa,
including the person mentioned in Mr Agrizzi’s affidavit." READ: Zondo commission secretary implicated in Bosasa corruption Zondo confirmed that the
commission’s investigators were probing the allegations against De Wee. "In the light of this and
the seriousness of the allegation against him, Dr De Wee has offered not to
report for duty – in effect to take special leave pending the outcome of the
investigation," Zondo’s statement continues. "I have accepted Dr De Wee’s
offer." Security
contract News24 reported Agrizzi would
testify that he had personally handed cash to politically-connected fixer,
Sesinyi Seopela on a monthly basis. Seopela would allegedly
distribute the cash to various officials, including De Wee. This was in exchange for a R400m security
contract Bosasa subsidiary Sondolo IT had been awarded in 2013, to provide
physical security at court buildings around the country. "Pending the outcome of the
investigation of the allegation against him, Dr De Wee will stay away from
work. It is envisaged that this will be with effect from Tuesday, 22 January
2019, as it is going to be necessary for me to appoint someone as acting
secretary of the commission," the statement concludes.  WATCH: Former Bossasa COO unpacks the bribes Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi on Thursday detailed the money trail allegedly used for bribing state entities. WATCH | 'Every single contract was tainted with bribes' - Agrizzi testifies #StateCaptureInquiry The second day of testimony by former Bosasa top boss Angelo Agrizzi in the commission of inquiry into state capture continues. ANALYSIS | #StateCaptureInquiry: Unpacking Agrizzi's testimony Watch as News24 investigative journalist Kyle Cowen and journalist Jeanette Chabalala unpack former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi's revelations at the state capture commission. WATCH: Bosasa spent between 'R4m and R6m a month' in cash bribes - Agrizzi at #StateCaptureInquiry Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi continues to testify at state capture inquiry - Day 2 The second day of testimony by former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi at the commission of inquiry into state capture is set to be far more explosive and damning for the ruling ANC party and his former colleagues. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi testifies at state capture inquiry The Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture resumed on Wednesday with former Bosasa employee Angelo Agrizzi on the witness stand.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.