Lesego Mkhize The department advises students who want to enrol at private colleges to check the registration status of such private colleges with the department through its toll-free number 0800-872-222 
(PHOTO: Getty/Gallo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories With many 2018 matriculants looking to enrol in higher
learning institutions, the government recently issued a warning against
illegitimate colleges. Earlier this month the 2018 matric results were
announced and with many students looking forward to studying further, but often
they’re likely to fall victim to bogus institutions. On the South African Government Twitter page a warning was
issued to students and their parents to be wary of fly-by-night colleges. “Good morning Mzansi, learners and parents are urged to be
aware of bogus colleges when applying at institutions of higher learning,” the
tweet read.    Lunga Ngqengelele, the department
of higher education and training’s media liaison officer, told DRUM said that
the department was working hard to ensure several private colleges were registered
to provide quality education. “Some private colleges operate without being registered,” Ngqengelele said. “To close down unregistered private education and training
institutions, the department is working closely with the South African Police
Service and other law-enforcement authorities.” Although President Cyril Ramaphosa tweeted that he encourages
youth to apply to higher education institutions, Ngqengelele urged students as well as their parents
to verify the registration status of that particular institution. “The department advises students who want to enrol at
private colleges to check the registration status of such private colleges with
the department through its toll-free number 0800-872-222,” he said. “Alternatively, students can log on to the website of the department
where the ‘Register of Private
Colleges’ is published and updated on a regular basis. The website
address is www.dhet.gov.za/resources/registers.” While the department may be hard at work in eliminating
these unregistered institutions, there are still many students who have graduated
and been unlawfully granted qualifications. “Regarding fake qualifications, parliament recently passed a
bill which makes it a criminal offence for anyone to misrepresent their
qualifications. The consequence is jail time,” Ngqengelele
said. According to the DHET, they run campaigns throughout the year
to make both students and parents aware of bogus colleges.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.