Mxolisi Mngadi Internet blacked out in Zimbabwe amid crackdown Zimbabwe was under an internet blackout on Friday after authorities extended a communications ban to cover emails. Meanwhile, the United Nations is urging an end to a security crackdown on civilians triggered by days of deadly protests. Saskia O'Dono The exterior of the International Criminal Court in the Hague. (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The DA plans to approach the International Criminal Court (ICC) if President Cyril Ramaphosa fails to intervene directly to stop the "ongoing human rights violations" on Zimbabweans, allegedly by president Emmerson Mnangagwa’s government. "If Rampaphosa fails to intervene and advise Mnangagwa to stop the military clampdown on civilians, the DA will be left with no option but to approach the ICC to consider a preliminary investigation into these violations as outlined in the Rome Statute," said Stevens Mokgalapa, the party's spokesperson on International Relations and Co-operation. "The ICC’s Office of the Prosecutor is empowered by the Rome Statute to '…determine whether there is sufficient evidence of crimes of sufficient gravity falling within the ICC’s jurisdiction, whether there are genuine national proceedings, and whether opening an investigation would serve the interests of justice and of the victims'." Mokgalapa said the DA strongly believed that the human rights crisis currently existing in Zimbabwe was of sufficient gravity to warrant an ICC investigation "because, according to the Zimbabwe Human Rights NGO Forum, at least 12 people have been killed, 78 shot at and 240 faced 'assault, torture, inhumane and degrading treatment'." WATCH: Mnangagwa and and his gangster must leave Zimbabwe alone - Zimbabweans A number of protesters marched to the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria on Wednesday in solidarity with their families who've been affected by the total shutdown in Zimbabwe. There has been a violent crackdown on protests that began last Monday in Zimbabwe after the government more than doubled fuel prices. The DA claimed Ramaphosa and his government "seemed intent on sitting on their hands over the Zimbabwe crisis in much the same manner as (former president) Thabo Mbeki’s failed diplomacy". "In 2008, people were attacked and murdered with impunity in another state sanctioned military clampdown targeting innocent civilians after a disputed election. Mbeki’s silence only served to worsen the human rights climate in Zimbabwe and led to a collapse of the economy, whose consequences are still being felt to this day with thousands of Zimbabweans flocking to South Africa to seek economic refugee," he said. Mokgalapa said the DA would not stand by while Ramaphosa repeated a "Quiet Diplomacy 2.0" strategy that was sure to produce the same results as "Mbeki’s ill-thought foreign policy". "Minister Lindiwe Sisulu’s claim that the internet shutdown in Zimbabwe, which was implemented by their government after protests broke out over fuel increase early this week, was an internal matter, fails to appreciate that the blackout was used as a cover to unleash the military in residential areas to beat, torture and kill innocent civilians," he said. He said like the ANC, the ZANU-PF government was quite simply the same bus filled with empty promises being driven by a different driver who has no power to steer the party in the right direction. "The very same people who terrorised Zimbabwe under Robert Mugabe are still in charge under Mnangagwa. The people of Zimbabwe were promised a new dawn when Mugabe was ousted, much like South Africa when Jacob Zuma stepped down. Both have proven to be myths," said Mokgalapa. He claimed that the era of comradeship between Ramaphosa’s ANC government and Mnangagwa’s ZANU-PF government, while human rights were being trampled on with impunity, was over. "President Rampahosa is faced with an easy choice, either he intervenes to stop civilian abuse by the military in Zimbabwe or his government will be one of the parties that will answer to the ICC on why they failed to act to stop the human rights violations. Ndivhuwo Mabaya, spokesperson for the Department of International Relations and Cooperation, said minister Sisulu had received a briefing on Sunday morning on the developments in Zimbabwe. "On the Zimbabwe protests and efforts to address economic challenges, the Minister has noted that protests in Zimbabwe have calmed down and life in the streets of Zimbabwe is returning to normal," Mabaya said in a statement. Sisulu also received a briefing from the South African ambassador to Zimbabwe Mphakama Mbethe on the economic situation in the country, according to Mabaya. "Minister Sisulu indicated that the South African government was working with the Zimbabwean government in finding a short and long-term solution to the economic situation. The Minister added that if the situation is not attended to, the current economic challenges can derail the political and economic progress the country has made since the election of the new president," said Mabaya. Mnangagwa tweeted on Sunday: "In light of the economic situation, I will be returning home after a highly productive week of bilateral trade and investment meetings. We will be ably represented in Davos by Minister of Finance, Mthuli Ncube. The first priority is to get Zimbabwe calm, stable and working again."  Zimbabwe protests after a 150 percent fuel price increase People in Zimbabwe took to the streets in the main cities of Harare and Bulawayo to protest a massive fuel price hike announced by the government. #Zimbabwe #protest #fuel WATCH: Mnangagwa and and his gangster must leave Zimbabwe alone - Zimbabweans Protesters marched to the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria on Wednesday in solidarity with their families who've been affected by the total shutdown in Zimbabwe Fuel price hike sparks protests in Zimbabwe Police have used teargas as anger over a fuel price hike in Zimbabwe, and over the wider economic crisis, spilled onto the streets. Zimbabwe opposition party demonstration draws thousands Thousands of anti-government demonstrators march through Harare in the first rally since a deadly crackdown on an election protest in August. Many protestor showed their support for the MDC (Movement for Democratic Change) party leader Nelson Cham... Fury as Zimbabwe doubles fuel prices Protesters took to the streets of the capital over the government's sudden fuel price increase. Zimbabwe: Inflation, famine and sanctions The recent history of a country in turmoil. Surviving in Zimbabwe's cashless economy One of the most pressing issues ahead of Zimbabwe's election on Monday (July 30) is a severe lack of U.S. dollars - forcing many to adopt parallels methods of paying for their daily needs. Zimbabwean opposition attends funeral of protest victim Zimbabwe's opposition leader Nelson Chamisa attends the funeral of one of the victims of deadly protests over fuel price hikes. Turmoil in Zimbabwe as new tax forces rush on goods The effects of a new tax on money transfers is taking hold in Zimbabwe. The new levy imposed last week has been met by public outcry. Finance minister Mthuli Ncube said last week the 2 percent tax would be used for roads and the health and educati... Zimbabwe hopes mining will unearth foreign cash President Emmerson Mnangagwa attended the groundbreaking for a new platinum mine in Zimbabwe on Tuesday - what he sees as a flagship investment that shows the country is open to foreign business. Protests erupt as Zimbabwe awaits poll result Police have clashed with stone-throwing protesters on the streets of Harare, with reports one person has been shot dead. Opposition supporters are angry with a delay in the results of Zimbabwe's election, which they say is a sign it was rigged. WATCH: Ramaphosa calls on EU to lift sanctions still in place against Zimbabwe Zimbabwe was on the agenda in talks President Cyril Ramaphosa had with European Union (EU) leaders on Thursday. Zimbabwe's first poll since Mugabe set for July Zimbabwe's President Emmerson Mnangagwa has announced that a general election will be held on July 30 - a vote that could be crucial to securing foreign investment. Opposition cries foul in Zimbabwe's landmark vote The votes are being counted in Zimbabwe's first election since the ouster of Robert Mugabe - a crucial vote that could bring to an end the country's pariah status, but which has also been marred by allegations of voter suppression. Zimbabwe opposition alleges deliberate poll delay Zimbabwe's opposition has accused the country's electoral commission of deliberate delays in revealing the results of a presidential election, in order to favor the ruling Zanu-PF. Zimbabwe to vote for its post-Mugabe future Zimbabweans head to the polls on Monday for their first election since Robert Mugabe was ousted last year - with the result too close to call. David Doyle and MacDonald Dzirutwe report. Moyo: I will not take an immunity deal Robert Mugabe's former minister on the legitimacy of the new government in Zimbabwe. Senior opposition figure arrested at Zimbabwe border Senior opposition politician and former Zimbabwean finance minister Tendai Biti is arrested in the aftermath of last week's disputed election result. Zimbabwe violence punctures hopes of change The Zimbabwean army's use of deadly violence following the country's landmark election has punctured euphoria over the ousting of Robert Mugabe, and damaged hopes of a new democratic era. 'Free': Zimbabwe's day of celebration Celebrations continued into the night after Robert Mugabe's 37-year reign as president came to an end. 'People sense Robert Mugabe is gone' Protests turn to celebrations on the streets of Zimbabwe's capital Harare. Zimbabweans reflect one year after Mugabe resignation As the country prepares to mark one year since then-president Robert Mugabe stepped down, Zimbabweans reflect on the expectations they had as the nonagenarian strongman's 37-year hold on power came to end, but say the change they hoped for has not... Zimbabwe's entrepreneurs hope for a tech startup boom After struggling with Zimbabwe's crippled economy for years, the country's tech entrepreneurs are hoping that a startup boom is imminent. Zimbabwe's ruling ZANU-PF part holds annual conference Zimbabwe's ruling ZANU-PF part holds annual conference  in Esigodini with a speech from President Emmerson Mnangagwa. Zimbabwean police arrest activist pastor as fuel protests enter third day Armed Zimbabwean police arrested a political activist at his home on Wednesday (January 16), his lawyer said, the third day of protests against fuel price hikes as businesses and schools stayed closed and networks enforced a government internet shutd Exiled musician returns to Zimbabwe, post-Mugabe Known as the "Lion of Zimbabwe," musician Thomas Mapfumo has long been a figure of protest. But after fleeing Zimbabwe during Robert Mugabe's presidency he's now returned. Matthew Larotonda reports   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.