Chelsea Pieterse The Catacroptera Cloanthe is one of 700 species of butterflies in South Africa. Butterflies are a good indicator of a healthy environment. (Zulu Rock Game Ranch and Babanango Outdoor Educati) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Once devastated by drought and overgrazing of farm animals,
the Zulu Rock Game Ranch in the Babanango region has started to recover with
butterflies being the main indicators of its returning health. Zulu Rock Game Ranch is now a reserve but was once divided
into different plots for farming. The ranch’s director, Jeffrey van Staden, said the land had
not only been subjected to overgrazing by farm animals but had also gone
through an “extensive drought”. However, an assessment completed at the ranch by KZN-based
internationally recognised butterfly expert Steve Woodhall showed that there
had been an increase in butterfly species in the region, which indicated “a
healthy environment”. “The presence of butterflies and moths in an area are
indicators of ... healthy ecosystems. “They are extremely sensitive to changes in their
ecosystems, which is why scientists often use butterfly population and
behaviour shifts as a measure for changes and problems in local environments,”
said Van Staden. Talking to The Witness, Woodhall said there were 700 species
of butterflies in South Africa. He said the more insects in an area, the better. “Insects,
butterflies and moths are good indicators of a healthy or unhealthy environment
as they are very sensitive to pollution, especially pesticides. “The higher the number of different butterfly species
spotted in an area the better. “Butterflies are very picky about what they eat so if there
are many species of butterflies in an area, you can be sure there is a great
variety of indigenous plants and grasses growing in the area too.” Woodhall said butterflies, mosquitoes and moths are also
pollinators and if the insect population dropped, there would be less food for
birds and the whole food chain would be affected. Van Staden said Woodhall’s report is extremely encouraging
“as he notes signs of the regeneration of this region ... So, with time,
rainfall, and continuing good veld management, the plant biodiversity will
return and the butterfly species count is bound to increase”. He added that the area also forms part of the Umfolozi
Biodiversity Economy Node development, a chain of linked private protected
areas, private game farms and community-owned land, with the potential to
create a conservation area of 20 000 hectares.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.