Jan Gerber Parliament's Portfolio Committee on Basic Education has congratulated the Eastern Cape for the improvements it has made in its matric results – the biggest increase in the country. - Sign up here to get your 2018 matric results Committee chairperson Nomalungelo Gina said in a statement that the committee was excited with the 2018 matric pass mark, and called on the Department of Basic Education to sustain the improvement and the upward trend. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga announced the results on Thursday, with Gauteng leading the provinces, followed by the Free State. The percentage pass mark increased from 75.1% to 78.2%. Revision, staying active, working hard: Cream of 2018 matric crop share their insights Some of the 2018 National Senior Certificate (NSC) top achievers say that they remain anxious on how well they have done ahead of the results being announced at Midnight on Thursday. "We have noted the continued improvement of the Grade 12 results since 2014, and especially by the Free State province. But the committee wishes to congratulate the Eastern Cape province for the improvement it has made in the 2018 results," Gina said in a statement. - See our Matric Results page. "This kind of performance by the province is inspiring and should give all those who were involved in the sector comfort and hope that they can do better. Challenges in the system are there, most of which are not education-related, but impact on the performance of learners. The work that the minister, MECs and the teachers have put into these results is worth commending," said Gina. The Eastern Cape improved its pass rate to 70.6% – up 5.6% from 2017. The committee reiterated its call for more attention to be given to schools that are in rural communities. Gains should be applauded An ideal situation would be when top performers were drawn from all schools, especially in technical subjects and natural sciences, it said. Parliament's other committee dealing with basic education, the National Council of Provinces' (NCOP) Select Committee on Education and Recreation, also welcomed the 78.2% matric pass rate. The committee was of the view that the gains made within the system since the dawn of democracy should be applauded. "This is despite many challenges that continue to face the system, especially ensuring that the quality of education is similar to all learners within the system," committee chairperson Lungelwa Zwane said. The committee also welcomed the overall improvements by provinces in ensuring that the majority, with the exception of Limpopo, achieved a pass rate of more than 70%. The committee has called for more focus from Northern Cape and Western Cape to arrest the decline experienced this year. "We are always looking for a growth trajectory and not regression," Zwane said. The committee reiterated its call that the foundation for high matric results be perfected at lower grades, particularly the foundation phase. Much more focus should be directed at those grades and towards ensuring that learners were adequately prepared before they reached matric, it said.  WATCH: SAPS escort pupils to matric farewell in Nyala Making an entrance is an extra bonus point when making a statement at a matric farewell. One couple in particular, turned heads when they rocked up in a police Nyala van escorted by police officers at their farewell in Newcastle over the weekend. Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Head boy and top achiever ready to 'get his future started' King David High School Linksfield's 2017 head boy, who earned seven distinctions in the IEB matric exams, has some advice for those entering their matric year. Here are the alternate avenues to explore if your matric results weren't ideal Here are the alternate avenues to explore of your matric results weren't ideal Matric pass rate should be at 100% - Wits professor Wits professor Marissa Rollnick says a matric pass rate of 100% is achievable. 'Consistency was key for me' - Rebecca Haines, top matric mathematics achiever Top matric mathematics achiever Rebecca Haines from Rustenburg High School For Girls in Cape Town says her excellent results came down to working consistently. Matric exams: How does upward mark adjustment work? Upward mark adjustments usually take place when exam papers are proven to be more difficult than previous years. 'I strategised; I had a timetable and I stuck to it' - top matric achiever Mapula Sebati Thousands of matrics throughout the country will know their individual results on Wednesday. However, the top achievers for the class of 2015 were celebrated on Tuesday after the official announcement by Minister of Education, Angie Motshekga. Top SA matric says his rare disease motivated him to study medicine this year After missing almost two terms of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker still managed to be the overall top achiever of 2015. WATCH: You have a second chance to ace matric Universities across the country are about to open up their doors. Although the national pass rate was 71. 5%, many students did not obtain the necessary results to get them into institutions of higher learning. 'The bigger plan is to become president,' says top matric performer Tumelo Mashigo, part of the class of 2017, hopes to one day be president.

The 18-year-old was the second best performing learner with special needs among the most recent matriculants and hopes to make the world a better place one day. WATCH: 5 tips to acing your matric exams Matric examination got underway on Monday across the country. Here are a few tips for A+ results.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.