Correspondent Paramedics attended the scene (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Zweli Mkhize has extended his heartfelt condolences to the mayor of OR Tambo District Municipality in the Eastern Cape after she tragically lost her two sons in a car accident over the weekend. According to News24, Nomakhosazana Meth’s two boys died just hours after receiving the news that they had passed matric. The municipality said the pair's death "is a huge loss, not only for the Meth family, but the district as a whole, as these were the young men who just received their matric results". READ: 2 brothers die in car crash after receiving their matric results Spokesperson Ayongezwa Lungisa told the Sunday Times that the one child was her last-born son, while the other was her adopted child. The boys, aged 18 and 23, had been travelling with their cousin and a friend in a bakkie when the accident happened. The cousin and the friend are still recovering in hospital. "Losing one’s child is a devastating experience. We can’t even comprehend the pain of such a double loss that the mayor has suffered.  WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric WATCH: South African paramedic dies in helicopter crash in the UAE A South African paramedic is among four people who died when a helicopter crashed in Ras al-Khaimah in the north eastern region of the United Arab Emirates. WATCH: Crash, booze, bang in Cape Town as nearly 12 000 litres of alcohol go down the drain City of Cape Town law enforcement officers popped open more than 16 000 liquor cans and bottles on Thursday as the City prepares for the upcoming festive season.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.