Sharlene Rood WATCH: Firefighters leave Overstrand with song and dance The firefighters who tirelessly battled to bring a raging fire in the Overstrand area under control have held a parade to thank the community for their support. The firefighters who tirelessly battled to bring a raging fire in the Overstrand area under control, held a parade, thanking the community for their support. (Carl-Daniel Steyn) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The firefighters who tirelessly battled to bring a raging fire in the Overstrand area under control have held a parade to thank the community for their support. The event, which was held in Kleinmond last week, saw residents come out in their numbers to celebrate the firefighters. The fire raged for roughly two weeks and was allegedly ignited on New Year’s Day, after a flare was set off. Working on Fire (WoF) spokesperson Lauren Howard told News24 that the Kleinmond ward councillor had "adopted" the teams. "He adopted them, fed them, gave them dry clothes when they needed it, and washed their clothes. So to thank him and the community, we arranged a little parade along the Kleinmond main road." The firefighters moved along the main road, singing and dancing. Howard said WoF had brought in teams from across the Western Cape and Free State to battle the fires. These are the firefighters seen in the video. They have since returned to base. Carl-Daniel Steyn, who filmed the parade, says he went to thank the men and women for their hard work. "I really wanted to show them that we appreciate them," he said. Although he wasn’t directly affected by the fires, he knows people who have lost their homes in the blaze. WoF also shared a post on their Facebook page, congratulating one firefighter on the birth of his daughter while he was out battling the blaze.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter    WATCH: Fire rescue Bambi trotting on the road to recovery At just a few months old, a rescued baby Cape Grysbok has touched the hearts of the many residents of the Cape overstrand area, which has recently been underthreat by a devastating fire for two weeks. 'The fire was higher than the roof here'- Hermanus farmer "Camphill, you've got 30 minutes until that fire is on you." These were the chilling words that came through as a Hermanus farm community, housing 54 intellectually disabled patients, was forced to evacuate. WATCH: Betty's Bay fire victim shares heartbreaking experience of the blaze A Betty's Bay resident has spoken out about the trauma of losing her home in a fire that raged through the town at the weekend. WATCH: At least 31 houses destroyed in Overstrand wildfires; video shows devastation in Betty's Bay At least 31 houses have been completely destroyed and 28 partially damaged by wildfires on the coastal Overstrand region in the Western Cape. WATCH: Western Cape firefighters end gruelling day with uplifting song A group of firefighters returned to their base at the Crassula hall in Betty's Bay on Friday, with song and dance. WATCH: Overstrand fire rages on Air support has been brought in to battle a large fire in the Overstrand area in the Western Cape. The fire has devastated areas close to Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.