Jenni Evans Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schafer chat with the 2019 Grade Rs of Forest Village Leadership Academy. (Jenni Evans, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories "Have a good day and don't fight with anyone!" said a mum who kissed her tiny son goodbye on his first day of Grade R at the Forest Village Leadership Academy in Eerste River, Cape Town, on Wednesday. He immediately set to work on a colourful puzzle on his table, concentrating hard as he showed off skills he appeared to have already practised before. LIVE: 'It's a beautiful day when we start school' - Makhura addresses parents, pupils on first day Another boy, in his neatly pressed tiny T-shirt and shorts held up a completed colourful creation for his beaming father. "He does those things at home all the time," said his proud dad. Parents streamed by car and on foot down Silverleaf drive, toward the vast school built near massive housing projects and a temporary relocation housing site about 35km east of central Cape Town. Ignoring the "Kiss and Drop Zone" notice at the gate for the big day, the parents and carers strolled in with children and their oversized bags, excited about the first day of school. Only one wail was heard once the parents had left, as the children busied themselves with the colouring in sheets and activities laid out on their tables. 'You can play with him at break time'  Grade Rs Forest Village Leadership Academy sit in their class. (Jenni Evans, News24)  Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer and Safety and Security MEC Alan Winde sat in tiny chairs and made small talk with the children, asking them if they had friends or relatives in the school already. "I have a cousin," one little boy told Schäfer, as he chose which colour bead to thread next on to a piece of string. Another looked longingly at his friend who was sitting in a different cluster of desks. "You can play with him at break time," said his dad reassuringly. Winde's fine motor skills were tested as a little girl showed him how to thread wool through holes punched into a butterfly's wings. The school has 29 teachers, plus another three because of donor funding, explained principal Wendy Philander. "What makes the school different is the additionals [extra teachers], because we are a collaboration school," said Philander.  Forest Village Leadership Academy principal Wendy Philander speaks about the first day for learners. (Jenni Evans, News24)  Collaboration schools received some donor funding and, with a ratio of one teacher to 40 children, this helps make sure each class has a teacher and that the school can afford ongoing teacher coaching and interventions to help pupils and parents. The school also has a psychologist who works with a large group of parents who need support, in a bright and airy counselling centre stocked with play therapy toys, couches, tables, and a mini-punching bag. Motivational words are on boards around the quadrangle with its water fountain, but tucked away in a car park is a sign reminding everybody that no drugs or alcohol are permitted at the primary school.  (Jenni Evans, News24)  Estimated 108 000 new Grade 1 pupils in Western Cape Schäfer said that the department would only know, after a snap survey conducted in 10 days' time, how many children are in school in the province, as many parents had applied to different schools. An estimated 108 000 children started Grade 1 in the province on Wednesday, and this figure will also be confirmed later in the month. In the meantime, the department would also investigate claims by some schools that there were not enough teachers. Also looming is a possible challenge to the department's decision to close Uitzig High School near Ravensmead because it was severely vandalised. Schäfer said thieves had "literally carried it away" and, with just under 60 pupils left and a 15% pass rate, the department did not feel it could justify the R60m it would cost to fix. The department was also rolling out its project to introduce isiXhosa as a language at all schools, with 250 schools on board in the province so far. Further funding from national government was required for the resources and teachers to expand that programme. In the meantime, Philander and a colleague chatted to confirm the time for first break for the new pupils, to have a bathroom break and a little play, before continuing the start of their long journey to matric. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: This 30-year-old family business is a school hotspot for Joburg families Gauteng schools open on Wednesday and parents are on the hunt for affordable school uniforms. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg. Parents sue over district’s policy to arm teachers Parents filed a lawsuit to block a Pennsylvania school district from allowing teachers to carry guns in school, the latest in a debate playing out in many states over whether it's wise to arm educators to protect students from mass shooters. Bus convoy paraded in Ga. to deter traffickers 72 school buses drove by Mercedes Benz Stadium on Wednesday to represent the thousands of young victims being trafficked in Georgia. Women encouraged to take up stunt work training Women encouraged to try movie stunt work training at Essex training school Turkey's Maarif Foundation hosts first graduation ceremony in Afghanistan In Afganistan, where 3.5 million children are out of school, these high school students from an Afghan-Turkish school are celebrating their graduation. Kids in Iraq camps dream big, but can't enroll in school Maareb has big dreams, but she may never get to realise them. Every day, when her friends attend class in the Iraqi displacement camp they call home, she stays behind. Slopes in the French Alps open in time for Christmas holidays It may have come a bit late this year but snowfall in the French Alps means the slopes at ski resorts are open in time for the start of school vacation. Parkland victim's father paints border wall against gun violence Venezuelan artist Manuel Oliver, whose 17-year-old son Joaquin Oliver was killed during the Parkland school shooting, paints a mural on the US-Mexico border fence in Tijuana, to raise awareness on the gun violence problem in the United States. Syrian refugee student attacked in a US school "You're lucky you're from another language because I will crush you b*tch."

A 15-year-old Syrian refugee in the US was attacked by another student in a school bathroom.

#US #refugee #attack School pathologist loses her job for refusing to sign a pro-Israel oath Bahia Amawi, an American citizen of Palestinian descent, lost her job in a Texas school because she refused to sign a pro-Israel oath. She is now filing a lawsuit in the Federal District Court in Austin. #US, #boycott, #Israel Prince Charles visits primary school for Christmas play Prince Charles visits Tetbury primary school Combat in the classroom A surge of patriotism in Poland has resulted in increased demand for military classes in high schools. The BBC joined one student, Doris for field training and combat lessons. Meet the teenager studying combat at school A surge of patriotism in Poland has resulted in increased demand for military classes in high schools. The BBC joined one student, Doris for field training and combat lessons. In Pakistan public education suffocates under surging population At the Tanjai Cheena school in northwest Pakistan students squeeze into makeshift classrooms where plastic tarps serve as walls and electricity is sparse, as a surging population overstretches the country's fragile education system. High school and university students protest in Paris Several hundred high school students are joined by university students at the Place Saint Michel in Paris to protest education reforms, including changes to crucial end-of-high school exams and access to higher education. WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. Aussie school kids lead mass coal mine protests Australian school children lead thousands of demonstrators nationwide calling for a halt on plans for Indian mining firm Adani to construct a controversial coal mine in the country's northeast. Christmas present from 1971 finally opened Adrian Pearce left a gift from his high school girlfriend Vicki Allen unopened for 47 years after she broke up with him. Allen says she didn’t realize Pearce’s feelings were so intense. Orangutan: Out of the cage and into the jungle On the Indonesian island of Sumatra, orangutans are being released into the wild. The female ape, Dora, who was raised in captivity, went to primate school at a reintroduction station, to prepare for release into the wild. French police arrest hundreds of students across the country French students have been blocking access to high schools across France in protest of President Emmanuel Macron's education reforms. #France #Franceprotests #giletsjaunes #Macron Teenager jailed for making hoax bomb threat to thousands of schools A teenager inspired by the Columbine High School massacre has been jailed after making bogus bomb threats to hundreds of UK schools and sparking an airport security scare.

George Duke-Cohan twice targeted schools in the UK and US with hoax messag... Paris high school vandalised as students protest Police block a street in central Paris where a high school was vandalized as French students protest across the country. Marseille high school students clash with police Thousands of high school students take to the streets in Marseille, as more and more join students protest against education reforms affecting university admission. WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. WATCH: This father says outsourcing at Eskom is hurting his kids' future When Tshepang's* first child was born, he dropped out of school to seek work. He has worked as a contractor at various state entities. His current contract sees his salary filtered through two labour broking companies before it reaches him. Kevin Hart will host 2019 Oscars 'Night School' star Kevin Hart has been announced as the host of the 2019 Academy Awards, and he is delighted for "the opportunity of a lifetime" to be at the helm of the Oscars. Michelle Obama speaks at London girls' school Michelle Obama spoke to pupils in North London about the power of education. Sniper School: Elite NATO Shooters Train In The Austrian Alps You are watching Elite NATO Snipers conducting training in the Austrian Alps. Aussie kids skip school for mass climate protest Thousands of Australian students skip school to join nationwide protests demanding government action on climate change. Sister of Syrian refugee assaulted in the UK is also targeted This Syrian girl has been bullied, assaulted and she's even had her headscarf ripped off. The incident took place at the same school in the UK where her 15-year-old brother was choked and mockingly ""waterboarded"".
#bully, #racism, #refugee WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. Cardi B visits former elementary school Cardi B just shocked and surprised teachers and students at her old elementary school when she paid them a visit! Six sets of twins dominate one high school basketball team A feature on Wednesday (28th November) at Splendora high school in Texas, where six sets of twins have dominated the school's basketball schedule. Philippines court hands down first murder verdict against police in drug war A Philippine court on Thursday found three police officers guilty of murder for the killing of a 17-year-old high school student, the first such conviction in President Rodrigo Duterte's war on drugs. Philippine court jails police officers for drug war murder A Philippine court has found three police officers guilty of murder in the killing of a 17-year-old high school student last year. #Duterte #Philippines #drugwar Philippine court jails officers for drug war murder A Philippine court finds three police officers guilty of murdering a 17-year-old high school student last year, as part of President Rodrigo Duterte's war on drugs. Anne Kjaer Reichart of ReDI School of Digital Integration on scaling "Nail it before you scale it" -Anne Kjaer Reichart of ReDI School of Digital Integration on scaling her startup   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.