Jenna Etheridge WATCH: Cape Town matrics beam after receiving IEB marks The young men and women exiting Reddam House Atlantic Seaboard in Cape Town on Thursday couldn't stop smiling when they saw that their hard work had paid off for the IEB national senior certificate exams. The young men and women exiting Reddam House Atlantic Seaboard in Cape Town on Thursday couldn't stop smiling when they saw that their hard work had paid off in the IEB national senior certificate exams. "I am happy. I did better than I expected. I was aiming for the 70s and got 70s and 80s," said Laylah Osman, 18, from Bo Kaap, who held her results in one hand. Her biggest challenges were avoiding distractions and remaining focused over two months of exams. "I tried my hardest," she said. Asked what her next steps would be, Osman said she wanted to study architecture, but would first take a gap year. "It’s a structured gap year," her mother Zulfah chipped in with a knowing smile. Proud parents accompanied their children to the school or picked the results up on their behalf. Some pupils opted to brave it alone, like 18-year-old Ethan Davids from Oranjezicht. 'Proud of my peers' Davids explained that he had tried hard to keep motivated, despite not being particularly academic. His focus is rapping and his goal is to pursue sound engineering. He buckled down for the finals to ensure he obtained the results he needed to study in that field. "My only motivation was, I have got to do this [exams] so I can do what I want. "With sound engineering, I can take my music to the next level because I do my own mixing and mastering." Also picking up his results alone was Dylan Maltman, 19, from Cape Town central. "It seems as if I have reached my target. I am very happy with my performance," he said, while waiting for his taxi to pick him up. Maltman said he was now much closer to pursuing further studies in Spain. "There were a couple of challenges involved: long study hours, early mornings, late nights. But at the end of the day, it really pulled through. Again, I am very proud of my peers."  Revision, staying active, working hard: Cream of 2018 matric crop share their insights Some of the 2018 National Senior Certificate (NSC) top achievers say that they remain anxious on how well they have done ahead of the results being announced at Midnight on Thursday. WATCH: SAPS escort pupils to matric farewell in Nyala Making an entrance is an extra bonus point when making a statement at a matric farewell. One couple in particular, turned heads when they rocked up in a police Nyala van escorted by police officers at their farewell in Newcastle over the weekend. Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Head boy and top achiever ready to 'get his future started' King David High School Linksfield's 2017 head boy, who earned seven distinctions in the IEB matric exams, has some advice for those entering their matric year. Here are the alternate avenues to explore if your matric results weren't ideal Here are the alternate avenues to explore of your matric results weren't ideal Matric pass rate should be at 100% - Wits professor Wits professor Marissa Rollnick says a matric pass rate of 100% is achievable. 'Consistency was key for me' - Rebecca Haines, top matric mathematics achiever Top matric mathematics achiever Rebecca Haines from Rustenburg High School For Girls in Cape Town says her excellent results came down to working consistently. Matric exams: How does upward mark adjustment work? Upward mark adjustments usually take place when exam papers are proven to be more difficult than previous years. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. 'I strategised; I had a timetable and I stuck to it' - top matric achiever Mapula Sebati Thousands of matrics throughout the country will know their individual results on Wednesday. However, the top achievers for the class of 2015 were celebrated on Tuesday after the official announcement by Minister of Education, Angie Motshekga. Top SA matric says his rare disease motivated him to study medicine this year After missing almost two terms of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker still managed to be the overall top achiever of 2015. WATCH: You have a second chance to ace matric Universities across the country are about to open up their doors. Although the national pass rate was 71. 5%, many students did not obtain the necessary results to get them into institutions of higher learning. 'The bigger plan is to become president,' says top matric performer Tumelo Mashigo, part of the class of 2017, hopes to one day be president.

The 18-year-old was the second best performing learner with special needs among the most recent matriculants and hopes to make the world a better place one day. WATCH: 5 tips to acing your matric exams Matric examination got underway on Monday across the country. Here are a few tips for A+ results.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.