Tshidi Madia in New Delhi WATCH Cyril Ramaphosa speaking at the start of his official state visit in India outh African President Cyril Ramaphosa speaking at the start of his official state visit in India. He is flanked by Indian Prime Minister Nareandri Modi (in white) and Indian President Ram Nath Kovind South Africa and India, which have a long history of working together, signed a single three-year agreement on co-operation, aimed at enhancing their strategic partnership. President Cyril Ramaphosa received a ceremonial welcome on Friday. His face was plastered on posters across parts of Delhi that thanked him for visiting the country. He was accompanied by his wife, Dr Tshepo Motsepe, and nine SA Cabinet ministers: Gwede Mantashe, Pravin Gordhan, Derek Hannekom, Naledi Pandor, Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams, Senzeni Zokwana and Lindiwe Sisulu. The president and Dr Motsepe also had an opportunity to pay their respects to Indian activist Mahatma Gandhi, who was known as the father of the nation. Honoured The state visit, which comprised many stops, included a lecture in honour of Gandhi and South Africa's first democratic president, the late Nelson Mandela, as well as bilateral talks between the two leaders. "Our whole country is grateful for the respect and honour he has bestowed upon us," Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, referring to Ramaphosa's acceptance of his invitation to visit India. India-South Africa Joint Communique on the occasion of the inaugural State Visit of President @CyrilRamaphosa to India, as invited by Prime Minister @NarendraModi https://t.co/9umgjLH3AP #SAinIndia #RepublicDay2019 #BetterAfricaBetterWorld pic.twitter.com/v2ISi93wAq Modi went to great lengths to describe the long relationship the two countries shared over the years, along with their similarities and paths towards becoming democratic states. Modi reflected on his own previous visit to South Africa, describing it as "warm" and "enthusiastic". He said he hoped Ramaphosa had the same experience in India and, at the same time, emphasised a need for the two to continue building their relationship and working together. Although timelines were not provided for some of the plans the two countries wanted to implement, the leaders said they would soon establish a Mandela-Gandhi skills development institute and would meet with major business leaders from each other's countries. President @CyrilRamaphosa delivering his address at the India-South Africa Business Forum at the ITC Maurya Hotel in New Delhi, India on the on the occasion of his State Visit at the invitation of Prime Minister @NarendraModi. #SAinIndia pic.twitter.com/LO5NhE8OSg Ramaphosa described the talks as "fruitful" and said the aim was to deepen relations between the two countries. "We were in agreement that considerable scope exists for the two countries to grow and deepen bilateral relations at numerous levels." Excitement Ramaphosa also thanked India, which is South Africa's second biggest trading partner, saying the country wanted to extend co-operation in the Agro-processing, defence procurement, technology and finance sectors. This comes as India's secretary of economic relations in the ministry of external affairs, TS Tirumurti, made it clear that the country had its eyes on a deal with South African state-owned manufacturer Denel. WATCH LIVE: INDIA-SOUTH AFRICA BUSINESS FORUM #SAinIndia #BetterAfricaBetterWorld https://t.co/ONQ1c9s2An India and South Africa have already increased interactions in maritime operations and training, and the latter's defence force is expected to participate in the first multinational India-Africa field training exercise in March. While Indian leaders expressed excitement over Ramaphosa's state visit, many others looked forward to having him as the country's chief guest when it showed off its military might and celebrated its constitution on Saturday. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Bollywood celebs wish PM Modi on 68th birthday Veteran actors like Amitabh Bachchan, Anupam Kher and Rishi Kapoor wished Prime Minister Narendra Modi a long and healthy life on his 68th birthday on Monday. Testy Winter Session Ahead Prime Minister Narendra Modi addresses the crowd and wishes luck just ahead of the poll number announcement. Testy Winter Session Ahead Prime Minister Narendra Modi addresses the crowd and wishes luck just ahead of the poll number announcement. Testy Winter Session Ahead Prime Minister Narendra Modi addresses the crowd and wishes luck just ahead of the poll number announcement. On The Road In Rajasthan BJP goes all out in last 48 hours of campaigning, PM Narendra Modi will be addressing three rallies and Congress president Rahul Gandhi is also scheduled to speak at rallies. WATCH: Agrizzi claims he packed R50 000 a month for Minister Mokonyane Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi told the Zondo Commission that the company catered for ANC rallies and paid for the ruling party's birthday cake. Agrizzi was testifying about the relationship between Bosasa and Cabinet minister Nomvula Mokonyana India launches world's largest healthcare scheme The Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the world's largest universal health insurance scheme on September 23. 

Dubbed 'Modicare,' it will provide 100 million of the lowest-income families $6,900 each annually for secondary or tertiary h... Indian politician dressed as Hitler in protest Naramalli Sivaprasad, an Indian politician and award-winning actor, dressed up as Hitler to protest against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Modi brings yoga diplomacy to G20 summit Stepping away from the sealed security zone and ceremonial pomp of the Group of 20 summit, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi brought a message dear to his heart to host Argentina -- the value of yoga. With the sound of rush-hour traffic audible ... The man giving India's PM 'sleepless nights' Hardik Patel is taking the fight to PM Narendra Modi in his home state of Gujarat. Ranveer & PM Modis JAADOO KI JHAPPI breaking the internet Actor Ranveer Singhs picture with Prime Minister Narendra Modi is breaking the internet where he can be seen hugging PM Modi. The photo is getting an insane response on social media. Prime Minister Narendra Modi met many Bollywood celebrities incl... Dailyhunt & Nielsen Survey: Chhattisgarh, MP and Rajasthan Keeping The Faith In PM Modi Over 50% respondents feel second term for Modi will provide them better future. Prospective voters in Odisha give thumbs up to Narendra Modi. Modi attends Priyanka- Nick reception, gifted a rose to Newly weds Prime Minister Narendra Modi led a crowd in congratulating newly-married couple actress Priyanka Chopra and American singer Nick Jonas at their reception National Capital on Tuesday. The PM, who was escorted on stage by Priyanka's mother Madhu Cho... 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Storm In Raje's Cup, Headache For BJP BJP goes all out in last 48 hours of campaigning, PM Narendra Modi will be addressing three rallies and Congress president Rahul Gandhi is also scheduled to speak at rallies. Campaign Over, Real Battle Begins Now Rajasthan and Telangana are just two days away from polls. 
While PM Narendra Modi addressed a rally in Dausa, Rahul Gandhi was in Kodad, Telangana. This election saw the campaigning stoop to new lows and many personal attacks on political rivals.... India raids activists with alleged guerrilla ties The arrest of five prominent human rights activists in raids across India for suspected links to Maoist guerrillas ignited allegations on Wednesday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's administration was trying to intimidate its critics. 'Our relationship went beyond politics' - Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest Mandela memories Zulu Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest memories of Nelson Mandela, on the fifth anniversary of Nelson Mandela's death. PM Modi lists out NDA’s big reforms GST turned India into a single market says PM Narendra Modi 'Rainbow nation' is still a dream in South Africa With few prospects for the future, the freedom Nelson Mandela fought for has little to offer young people. Today's South Africa has many troubles, including a high proportion of people without jobs. Modi's yoga diplomacy Is Narendra Modi using 'yoga diplomacy' to stretch India's soft power? Saira Banu pins hope on PM Modi to save Dilip Saab's home Veteran actress and wife of Dilip Kumar, Saira Banu, has expressed hope that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet her here and help save her husband's bunglow from the land mafia. Public Review| The Accidental Prime Minister Amid lot of diagreement on the release of the film, 'The Accidental Prime Minister' hit theaters today. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. PM Modi's Big Interview Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Interview wherein, he answers issues such as Ram Mandir ordinance, Farm loan waiver and Assembly Elections loss, and much more. The expert panel dissect and debate on the Prime Minister's opinions and a possible futu... PM , President and Bollywood condoles Kader Khan's demise President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several political leaders on Tuesday condoled the death of veteran Bollywood actor-director Kader Khan. PM Wants India To Be In ‘Top 50’ In Ease Of Doing Business PM Narendra Modi said India is aiming at being in the list of top 50 countries next year in the 'ease of doing business' category. "I have asked my team to work harder so that India is in the 'Top 50' list in ease of doing business next year. I wa... PM Modi takes aim at Mahagathbandhan In a veiled attack against the SP-BSP alliance  Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that this 10% quota  will give opportunities to the poor without discrimination. Is the Sardar's statue a political statement? Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream project has been finally unveiled-the world’s tallest statue built in honour of Sardar Vallabhai Patel. World's tallest statue to be unveiled in India The world's tallest statue is being unveiled in the home state of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The 'Statue of Unity' is double the size of the Statue of Liberty in New York. PM for India but also a 'Karyakarta' for BJP; Narendra Modi Prime Minister Narendra Modi on trying to fulfil all party responsibilities with all his heart and mind. 2nd day of PM'S visit in Japan Implementation of GST has further enhanced ease of doing business in India says Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A Statue For Unity Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream project has been finally unveiled-the world’s tallest statue built in honour of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. Is the Sardar's statue a political statement or is it a long delayed tribute to the person who truly uni... India celebrates 70 years of independence Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has led celebrations as the country marks 70 years since independence. Smartphones emerge as bright spot for Indian manufacturing Local smartphone production is feeding into Prime Minister Narendra Modi's ambitious effort to make India a global hub for electronics manufacturing. Desperate farmers march in India Tens of thousands of farmers and agricultural workers march towards the Indian parliament demanding debt waivers and higher crop prices, putting pressure on Prime Minister Narendra Modi ahead of 2019 elections. Former CBI Chief Alok Verma Resigns From Service The move came after a high powered selection committee comprising Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Justice A K Sikri and leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, in a split verdict, decided to transfer him 21 days ahead of the completion o... Proud to helm a biopic on Narendra Modi : Omung Kumar National-Award winning filmmaker Omung Kumar says to direct a biopic on Prime Minister Narendra Modi is a huge responsibility and he is proud to helm it. Anil Kapoor Meets PM Modi, says his charisma is Infectious Veteran actor Anil Kapoor on Wednesday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and said he was left inspired by their conversation. Last week, film fraternity members like Karan Johar, Ranveer Singh, Ranbir Kapoor, Alia Bhatt and Vicky Kaushal also met ... Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. Deportations spread fear among India's Rohingya Rohingya refugees that have fled to India are fearful after a group of Rohingya men were deported back to Myanmar. Worst flood in a century in India's Kerala kills scores The worst floods in a hundred years in the Indian state of Kerala killed scores of people and forced hundreds of thousands into relief camps, officials said on Friday with more misery expected as heavy rain pushed water levels higher. PM Narendra Modi first look: Vivek Oberoi as Modi is unrecognisable Produced by Suresh Oberoi and Sandip Ssingh, the film titled PM Narendra Modi, has released its first look. Actor Vivek Oberoi plays the titular role of14th Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi. India's Modi on track for win in key state vote In a major boost for Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his Bharatiya Janta Party was heading for a majority at key elections in the state of Karnataka. PM wants film industry to be part of nation's growth: Producer Mahaveer Jain Producer Mahaveer Jain, who along with filmmaker Karan Johar, initiated the move for a delegation of young Bollywood talent to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, says he wants the entertainment industry to be a more proactive part of the process o... Never seen anyone work so hard for the nation: Anil Kapoor on Modi Actor Anil Kapoor says his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi was destined to happen and that it was an inspiration to meet someone who has been working really hard for the nation. SAfrica's Ramaphosa gives speech at ANC manifesto launch 1ST IMAGES of South Africa's Cyril Ramaphosa's speech at the launch of his party's 2019 election manifesto. The African National Congress (ANC), which has ruled since the end of apartheid 25 years ago, is tipped to win the election in May despite ... SAfrica's Ramaphosa gives speech at ANC manifesto launch 1ST IMAGES of South Africa's Cyril Ramaphosa's speech at the launch of his party's 2019 election manifesto. The African National Congress (ANC), which has ruled since the end of apartheid 25 years ago, is tipped to win the election in May despite ... Akshay, Ajay, Karan Johar, Prasoon Joshi meets PM Narendra Modi A delegation representing the Indian film and entertainment industry met Prime Minister Narendra Modi here on Monday, and pitched for lower and uniform rates of GST for the fraternity. PM Narendra Modi's Big Interview Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Interview wherein, he answers issues such as Ram Mandir ordinance, Farm loan waiver and Assembly Elections loss, and much more. The expert panel dissect and debate on the Prime Minister's opinions and a possible futu...   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.