Jenni Evans Taxify app (PHOTO: Taxify) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Taxify driver was attacked twice in one night in Manenberg, Cape Town, with a pastor stepping in to save him the second time, police said on Thursday. Spokesperson Noloyiso Rwexana said the driver, 28, had picked up passengers in Mitchells Plain, Cape Town, on Tuesday night. Taxify picks up people who order a taxi via a mobile phone app that usually deducts the fare from their bank account. Known as "e-hailing", this type of service is usually cashless, although Uber and Taxify also both have cash options. The driver dropped off three women, before picking up three men who wanted to be dropped in Manenberg. Rescued from 'serious injury' "One of the men sitting at the back hit him with a bottle over his head. He was attacked by all three men, which made him lose control of his vehicle, and [he] collided with a fixed object," she said. The robbers jumped out of the driver's car with his cellphone. But his ordeal was not over. Still dazed and shocked, some people in the immediate vicinity attacked him, police said. "According to the 28-year-old male, a pastor of a nearby church rescued him from serious injury. No arrest has been made," said Rwexana. The police have requested that anybody with information regarding the attack call Manenberg police on 0216999400 or Crime Stop 0860010111. Taxify's public relations company replied to questions to say that the Taxify High Priority Team is investigating the incident because it takes any incidents of violence against drivers or riders very seriously. It was still trying to locate the driver. "The incident has still not been reported through the Taxify platform, and, with thousands of cars on the road across the country, it takes time to isolate specific rides – even more so when there is no driver or rider information [at] hand." It said: "Gareth Taylor, Taxify’s country manager in South Africa, emphasizes that Taxify roundly condemns any violence, intimidation or extortion directed towards ride-hailing drivers, because it believes that every South African has the right to earn a living without risk of harm, intimidation or coercion." The company said it heard about the incident through the media, and asked anybody with information on the attack to hand it over to the police. "The company wishes a speedy and complete recovery to the victim of the incident in Manenberg that you describe." *This story has been updated to include Taxify's statement post-publication.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.