Kaveel Singh Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A police officer and two others were killed in a bloody shootout late on Thursday at Dassiekop Farm in Koffiefontein in the Free State, police said on Friday. According to the police, officers on patrol received information about a suspicious vehicle at Dassiekop Farm and quickly established that the vehicle belonged to 36-year-old Coenraad Badenhorst. Badenhorst was a neighbouring farmer who previously allegedly threatened 60-year-old Paul Nel. "Whilst on the way to investigate the complaint [a police officer] called Mr Nel to notify him to be cautious. Whilst talking to him on the phone, she heard noises and Mr Nel's phone went dead," police spokesperson Colonel Thandi Mbambo said. She said officers called for backup while heading to Nel's home. "On arrival at the farm, Mr Nel's body was found on the front porch with a gunshot wound to the head." Read: Free State constables shot dead, pistol missing Unbeknownst to police, Badenhorst had been hiding in the bushes. "He fired shots at the police and 27-year-old Constable Vuyani March was hit [in] the head and died at the scene whilst 41-year-old Sergeant George Calvert was shot in the face and rushed to Kimberley Hospital for treatment." Mbambo said other officers returned fire, injuring Badenhorst. "The suspect was shot and died on the way to hospital. The firearm – a hunting rifle - was found at the scene. Three counts of murder and two counts of attempted murder have been registered for further investigation." Provincial Commissioner Lieutenant General Moeketsi Sempe gave his condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of the police officer who was killed. "It is unfortunate that we woke to such gruesome, disturbing news of yet another incident in Koffiefontein where one of our members [were] killed whilst performing duties. I also want to wish a speedy recovery to the injured member who [was] admitted to Kimberley Hospital". Minister of Police Bheki Cele has condemned the attack. While passing his condolences to family and friends of the cop, Cele said attacking a police officer was the same as attacking the State. Safety of our men and women in blue remains high on the agenda of the [police] and is at the heart of [our] strategic imperatives to ensure the safety of our members. Police members are a national asset and they need to be protected by all of us including members of the community," he said. Chairperson of the Portfolio Committee on Police, Francois Beukman, said it was unacceptable that officers continued to be killed. "The committee remains of the view that the killing and attack of police officers is a direct attack on the rule of law and the Constitution of the country." He called on police not to be deterred by the attack and urged the public to continue working with the law enforcement to deal with criminals. "The committee further wishes the wounded officer a speedy recovery." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   WATCH: Durban metro police and taxi driver get into heated argument A video of an altercation between a metro police officer and a taxi driver in Durban, is making the rounds on various social networks. WATCH: Police use stun grenades to disperse picketing MyCiti protesters Police have fired stun grenades at MyCiti bus drivers on strike in the Cape Town CBD. WATCH: Police threaten to slap man for filming pulled over Lamborghini A resident of Daveyton on the East Rand was threatened by Ekurhuleni metro police on Sunday after he stopped to film footage of a green Lamborghini that had been pulled over by officers. WATCH: Durban metro police officer charges at motorist A video of an altercation between a Durban Metro police officer and a driver has gone viral on social media. WATCH: Chaos ensues during police operation in Parow A video of a police operation escalating into violence in Parow, Cape Town on Saturday has gone viral on social media. WATCH: Free State police department confirms sleeping traffic cop is 'on medication' The Free State Department of Police, Roads and Transport has responded to a viral video of a traffic officer apparently caught sleeping on the job. WATCH: Woman says police forced motorist to withdraw money at road block A video of an altercation between police officers and a woman at the Honeydew police station has gone viral. WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. WATCH: Shooting at KZN court - two confirmed dead At least two people have been shot and killed at the Durban Magistrate's Court. WATCH: Heavy police escort for Mihalik accused Three people appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Thursday on charges for the murder of top advocate Pete Mihalik. WATCH: Bogus police rob Nelspruit jewellery store Police are searching for a group of men who robbed a jewellery store at I'langa Mall in Nelspruit on Monday. WATCH: Bheki Cele visits family of Gift of the Givers volunteer killed in gang shooutout Police Minister Bheki Cele paid a visit to the family of Ameerodien Noordien, the Gift of the Givers volunteer who was killed in gang crossfire in Hanover Park, Cape Town. WATCH | JHB crime stats: Drunk driving remains the city's most frequently recorded offence Drunk driving remains the highest offence in Johannesburg, according to the metro police latest statistics. WATCH: New footage shows armed men fleeing after Joburg M1 shootout New footage has emerged giving further insight into the shooting on Johannesburg's M1 on Monday. WATCH: Police chopper corners home robber on N1 Motorists on the N1 south in Johannesburg, South Africa had their commute interrupted on Thursday as police flooded the motorway, to arrest a fleeing house robber. WATCH: Calm restored in the small town of Middelburg following looting - police on high alert Police are on high alert in Mhluzi in Middelburg, Mpumalanga, after widespread looting in the area.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.