Kaveel Singh ANC banner. (Deaan Vivier, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The sudden resignation of a KwaZulu-Natal mayor was purely for the purpose of his career and not due to any violence or threats, the ANC maintains. This followed reports that Newcastle Local Municipality Mayor Makhosini Nkosi was pressured to resign, or that he was threatened to do so due to a probe he had ordered into tenders. However, these claims were dismissed by regional secretary Chris Mhlophe, who confirmed that Nkosi tendered his resignation to the Emalahleni region last week - just over two years since his appointment in August 2016. "Advocate Nkosi is pursuing a career in the legal fraternity, his original career. He found an opportunity for himself. We cannot stand in the way of his personal growth," Mhlophe said. ANC provincial spokesperson Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu said that they were not formally notified but were aware of the resignation. "We have not been formally notified. Once a deployee resigns, the matter goes to a deployment committee, who sits and decides on their replacement. We understand the matter has been forwarded to the region." Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs spokesperson Lennox Mabaso said they had also not been notified. According to Mhlope, Nkosi intends to join advocates at the Durban Bar. "He simply wants to grow his career. We were not planning this. In fact, we asked him to stay on for a while, but new appointments to the bar end today (Tuesday)." He lamented that there were no threats and no pressure on Nkosi to leave. "There is no bad blood. We are comrades." Mhlope added that the party was not in a hurry to fill the mayor's post. "Service delivery is not going to stop. The deputy mayor will stand in for the mayor. We want to fill the post with someone solid." Nkosi did not respond to News24's request for comment. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.