Robyn Lucas Laura Nutall. (Photo: Facebook/Nicola Nuttall) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 19-year-old student who thought she had a common
cold learnt she had terminal brain cancer after she’d gone for a routine eye
test. Laura Nutall, from Lancashire, England, had just
started studying international relations at King’s College in London in October
last year when she began to experience severe headaches and flu-like symptoms, Mirror
reports. She went for an eye test and was diagnosed with
glioblastoma – a type of tumour that
occurs in the brain and spinal cord, according to Mayo Clinic. “We were devastated and horrified to find out that
the prognosis was so poor with this disease,” wrote Laura’s mom, Nicola, on the
GoFundMe page
that had been set up for the teen. “The most common length of survival following
diagnosis is 12-15 months, with fewer than 3-5% of people surviving longer than
five years. Without treatment, survival is typically just three months.” Late last year Laura underwent six “gruelling” weeks of radiotherapy and
chemotherapy at the Christie Hospital in Manchester. She’ll soon start another
round of chemo treatments, People
reports. “Laura had her whole life ahead of her,” Nicola
said. “Now she’s having to cope with the fact that her remaining life will be
very short. “As a family we’re beyond devastated. We’re trying
to remain positive and looking into lots of alternative treatments and
therapies – anything that will buy her a bit more time,” the mom-of-two added. She’s now doing all she can to fulfill her daughter’s bucket list. So far Laura’s
seen Paul McCartney perform in concert in London and watched an Everton
football match, Birmingham
Live reports. “I’m trying anything I can think of to help keep
Laura feeling positive,” Nicola said. “We’re doing as much as we can to make
the best possible memories.”   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.