Kauthar Gool Lee with his dog Crystal. Photo. (Facebook/Helping Hands) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A homeless Englishman from Leeds cried tears of joy after he was reunited with his dog on 22 January after the animal went missing earlier in the month, The Sun reports. The young man, known only as Lee (24), was happy to have the hound back and kept repeating that his dog, Crystal, is all he has in the world. After an argument had broken out near the subway where Lee and his beloved pet had been sleeping, Crystal ran off scared, explained Toni Sweeney from Leeds’ volunteer group Helping Hands. “Someone was rumoured to be seen with her, but we never confirmed that,” Toni said. “I contacted Murphy’s Army for help and they swiftly put a team in place. People from all over the country sent well wishes and followers were doing all the posters,” she added. After notices were put up the bull terrier was found one week later by a gamekeeper at Kirkstall Forge railway station, Global News reports. “It was awesome when I received the call,” Toni said. “The whole event was a week of panic and broken emotions. Lee and I spent time together while I consoled him and reassured him,” she added.  Since the happy reunion Lee has been given a tent and a leash to keep Crystal close by, especially at night. Sources: Sky News, The Sun, Global News Young South Koreans are choosing pets over kids Strained by sky-high housing prices and notorious working hours, more and more young people in South Korea are choosing 'fur' babies over real ones. That means fancy pet food, puppy photo shoots and even dog funerals. Westminster dog show unveils new breeds Two new breeds, the grand basset griffon Vendeen and the Nederlandse kooikerhondje will make their debuts at the Westminster Kennel Club dog show next month. Stray Dog walks the Ramp, before Sidharth & Diana Stray Dog walks the Ramp, before Sidharth & Diana Dog teaches herself to skateboard Videos of Pumpkin have been watched thousands of times on social media. Meghan talks about her rescue dog during animal charity visit The Duchess of Sussex held dogs and met staff at the animal welfare charity which she now supports as patron. 

Meghan visited the headquarters of Mayhew which works to keep cats and dogs, whether family pets or companions for the homeless, safe a... Support dog transforms life of autistic boy A support dog has helped to transform the life of an autistic boy and his family, helping him go from completely non-verbal to a happy, thriving little boy.

Alexander Duthie, seven, from South Milford, North Yorkshire, was diagnosed with sensory ... Spinner dog! Dog balances fidget spinner on his nose. Rescued duck finds budding romance with a dog Woof, a duck that was rescued from the roadside in Omsk, has found a budding romance with a canine.  Anastasia Kalmychkova  found the duck and took it back to her flat and her two dogs. Although she had her reservations, she didn’t need to worry a... New York fetches a Dog Museum The American Kennel Club Museum of the Dog opens Feb. 8 in midtown Manhattan, returning to New York after three decades on the outskirts of St. Louis. Dramatic rescue of woman and dog marooned on sandbank in Wales Welsh lifeboat rescuers rescued a marooned woman and her dog. 86 puppies rescued from pet store fire Firefighters were joined by passers-by to rescue nearly 100 puppies from a burning Connecticut pet store.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.