Siyabonga Dzimbili President Cyril Ramaphosa (PHOTO: Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories President Cyril Ramaphosa recently posted a tweet inspired by his
community visits in which he encouraged young South Africans to register with
higher learning institutions as a vehicle to improve their lives. On Monday President Cyril Ramaphosa was visiting the Masinenge
informal settlement where he met the son of Bawinile Nding, Lundi.  He had just completed his matric but had not
applied to any tertiary institution. “I visited the home of Bawinile Ndinga and I met her son Lundi who
has just finished matric. He told me he had not applied to further his studies.
I urge all young people who have successfully completed matric to pursue
tertiary studies so as to unlock your true potential,” he tweeted.  I visited the home of Bawinile Ndinga and I met her son Lundi who has just finished matric. He told me he had not applied to further his studies. I urge all young people who have successfully completed matric to pursue tertiary studies so as to unlock your true potential. pic.twitter.com/Ijz7uu8vF5  This stirred up discussions in which people questioned just how
accessible higher education is and whether enough aid is provided to ensure
that pupils are able to successfully transition from a secondary level to a
tertiary institution. Ramaphosa’s tweet comes in the midst
of an ongoing campus shut down at the University of South Africa (Unisa)
campuses. The shutdown is aimed at getting management to address issues being
faced by students relating to NSFAS funding, mass exclusion and the advertising
or unaccredited courses. Speaking to DRUM, the President of SRC
for the Tshwane University of Technology, Kevin Phehla said, “We need better
systems in disadvantaged communities to ensure students are well equipped and
able to pass their matric year with marks that allow them entry to higher
learnering institutions.” Kevin continued to say access to higher education is
only accessible if all people have equal opportunity. At the University of
Johannesburg (UJ) is where multitudes of students made their way to get the
registration process underway. The long queues were broken when a large number
of students was sent back home because they had not been approved for funding. Ntshuxeko Bvuma a 3rd
year law student detailed the issues of funding as draining and inherently what
causes students to develop issues of depression. “The selection criteria for
NSFAS only funds people who have lost their parents or come from extremely
disadvantaged backgrounds,” said Ntshuxeko. He continued to say,
“what must happen to those of us who come from okay families but still cannot
afford to pay for our fees?” Basetsana Thabeng a
Food operations undergraduate told DRUM that she wished other funding
institutions were advertised as much as NSFAS, “I wish we had more funding
alternatives because we stand here and wait for hours and get sent back home in
the end without registering.”   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.