Duncan Alfreds Bobby was chained up for months and requires an operation. (SPCA) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories *WARNING: GRAPHIC IMAGES NOT SUITABLE FOR SENSITIVE VIEWERS. The Bloemfontein Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) has made an appeal for members of the public to help an abused dog that was left in the care of a child. "Today we came across a sad situation. Bobby was a gift for a 5-year-old. His parents told him that it was his doggy and that he needed to take care of Bobby," the Bloemfontein SPCA said on Monday. The parents then chained Bobby and left him in the child's care. READ: SPCA shocked after dog is skinned alive The dog was left chained for eight months and never received any of the required vaccinations or proper food. "Bobby's meals consisted of the 5-year-old's leftovers because he never asked his parents to buy dog food. Clearly, the child didn't know what a dog needs. "What is worse is that Bobby's chain was never loosened as he grew. As a result, the chain 'grew' into Bobby's skin, causing severe injuries," said the SPCA. Parents investigated The organisation said that it had since educated the child about care for the dog, but the prognosis is not good for the animal. "We have taken Bobby to the vet and, unfortunately, the news is not good. Bobby has a severe infection in his neck, trachea and oesophagus. He needs an operation to repair the damage caused by the chain." Further investigations are being conducted with the aim of laying charges against the parents for leaving the dog in the care of a minor. People convicted of animal abuse don't often face stiff fines. In November 2018, Letiya Mercy Lebakeng was convicted of abusing a tortoise and was fined R500 or 50 days' imprisonment. The SPCA has appealed for funding to cover the cost of the operation for Bobby. "We know that this is a very difficult time in the year, but we need your help. The operation and post-operative care is estimated at R6 000. We humbly ask for donations to help Bobby have a new year and live a healthy life free from pain, injury and suffering." Click or tap here to donate, or SMS Bloemspca to 42646 and donate R30.  Bobby was chained up for months and requires an operation. (SPCA)       KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter New York fetches a Dog Museum The American Kennel Club Museum of the Dog opens Feb. 8 in midtown Manhattan, returning to New York after three decades on the outskirts of St. Louis. Dramatic rescue of woman and dog marooned on sandbank in Wales Welsh lifeboat rescuers rescued a marooned woman and her dog. 86 puppies rescued from pet store fire Firefighters were joined by passers-by to rescue nearly 100 puppies from a burning Connecticut pet store. Meet the cat that thinks it’s a dog! As the cat versus dog debate rages on, Johanna, from Palermo in Buenos Aires, can lay claim to having the the best of both worlds. Her undeniably feline friend Coco, a male Bengal cat, apparently thinks that it’s a dog and likes to plays canine as... Little dog trolls big brothers! Dog loses his stick. Dog running on snow Dog struggles to run on snow. Puppy rescued from icy lake The dog has a new owner - the police diver who saved her life. Meet the dog with no nose that is looking for a new home An abandoned dog with no nose has received hundreds of offers of a new home after a plea from a shelter that saved him in Florida. A Turkish police diver rescues a dog A Turkish police diver rescues a dog stuck in a frozen lake in Turkey's Van city. The dog fell unconscious and is now under treatment. Footage shows a dog being ditched at the side of a road Heartbreaking footage shows a dog being abandoned. RSPCA inspector braves ice in daring dog rescue Nine-year-old black Labrador Hardy was rescued by an RSPCA inspector after he became trapped in the frozen River Wansbeck in Northumberland. Raising a guide dog These puppies are just a few weeks old - but they're destined for a serious job in a few years' time. Best gym buddy ever! Dog walking on a treadmill. He is so cute (but so dumb) Dog falls when playing with his tail. Who let the dogs out? India celebrates pets at festival Indians bring their dogs and other pets to a two-day pet festival in New Delhi. This dog doesn't like his Christmas gift! He doesn't seem happy. Dog being pranked! Barking dog goes crazy. Police dog's new snow boots take some getting used to Jary the police dog learns to walk in his new snow boots at Rapid City Police Department in South Dakota Devoted dog waits outside hospital for weeks for sick owner Despite intense cold and snow, Sherry the dog has been waiting for more than two weeks outside of a hospital, dutifully waiting for her owner who is sick. Dmitry’s wife, Svetlana, attempted to take the dog home, but Sherry ran back to the hospital... This is why dogs are man's best friend Dog plays basketball with kids. Amazing circus dog "What are you doing hooman?" Dog makes great save in Argentinian football match A dog unwittingly stops a sure goal during a football match in Argentina. The dog escaped onto the pitch and stopped a shot on target during Juventud Unida and Defensores de Villa Ramallo's match in the Primera B Nacional division. Houston, we have a problem... Dog with stick can't get through gate. The Top Five Best Dog-Friendly Pubs & Bars In Perth! Perth has no shortage of awesome watering holes and restaurants to choose from. But what if you're keen on bringing your favourite US citizens pay their repects to president Bush at Congress George H.W. Bush's body lies in state at the US Capitol, where visitors come to pay their respects to "a great human being" that brought "civility and goodwill" as a statesman. The late president's service dog, Sully, is brought to the Rotunda as ... Skilled dog! Dog learning how to play golf. Dogs having fun in the slides Dog climbs up stairs ladder and goes down slide. Dog rescued from frozen pond in Ohio A fireman crawls across ice to rescue a dog stuck in a frozen pond in Norton, Ohio. His new canine companion started paddling towards dry land once help arrived. Police dog balances juicy sausage on his nose A police dog who went viral for balancing six biscuits on his nose before scoffing them has repeated the trick with a juicy cooked sausage.

Handler Pc Wayne Thompson showed off the obedience displayed by his nine-and-a-half-year-old Dutch Herder ... Wandering dog home after 2,200-mile adventure Sinatra the husky was found in Florida 18 months after vanishing in New York. Here's how he got home. Lion calls squad to show hyenas who's the boss of the bush This lion's pride definitely had her back when she was cornered by a group of hyenas trying to steal her kill. It was captured on video in Kruger National Park by 19-year-old student Amber Soames and shared by Latest Sightings. South Korea closes dog slaughterhouse The Taepyeong-dong complex in South Korea housed at least six dog slaughterhouses that could hold several hundred animals at a time and was a major source for dog meat restaurants across the country. #South Korea #slaughterhouse #dogs Sparkly, squishy and stinky poo are hot holiday toys in 2018 Bathroom humour is moving to the living room as poop-themed items become one of the holiday season's must-have toys. Toy experts say the popularity of the poop emoji is likely behind the trend. Dog barking at Dalek Dog barking at remote control toy Lottery winner's dog knocks him over during celebratory photocall A couple say they have their dog's picky eating habits to thank for helping them win GBP1 million on a National Lottery scratchcard.

Patrick Morling had made a special trip to the supermarket to buy their pet's favourite meal when he decided on a... Yoga dog! Mature woman squatting with dog Hero police dog dies A hero police dog that helped capture more than 200 suspects has died. ‘Is this a dream?’: People with diabetes meet their alert dogs Carrie Lemay says having a diabetes alert dog, trained to detect and alert her to low blood sugar, will help give her peace of mind. Lemay and five other people with Type 1 diabetes met their new canine companions this week in Oakville, Ontario. Dog pranking humans! Dog listening to vuvuzela Petco bans artificial ingredients in pet foods Demand for healthy, natural food is extending from the grocery store to the pet store. Petco announced Tuesday that it will stop selling dog and cat food and treats with artificial colors, flavors and preservatives. Amazing dog! Dog balancing on chain Nepalese police dogs honoured for their duty in annual festival Nepalese police dogs honoured for their duty in annual festival WATCH: Infamous snake pastor strikes again, this time feeding dog meat to congregants Controversial "snake pastor" Penuel Mnguni who has fed snake and rat to his congregants has now chosen dog meat for communion. Italian academy trains dogs to find truffles A  labrador wags his tail, happy to have found the hidden treasure as he graduates from Italy's "truffle dog university", making his master proud. Giovanni Monchiero is the dean of the unusual academy in Roddi in northwestern Italy and, like his f... WATCH: Hiker has close encounter with wild caracal on Table Mountain An unsuspecting hiker had a close encounter with a caracal on a trail in Table Mountain National Park on Monday. Dog sled crash A sled crashes while being pulled by dogs. Former Jacksonville quarterback gets Guinness World Record for longest hot dog throw Former Jaguars quarterback Mark Brunell gets the Guinness World Record for the longest throw and catch of a hot dog sausage in a bun, with a distance of 20.96 metres. Interview with Guinness World Record Adjudicator, Jack Brockbank. Court shown audio recording of alleged killing of Michelle Savage and her mother Noises made in the moment a man allegedly shot dead his ex-wife, mother-in-law and pet dog in an execution-style killing were captured on a security camera. What's In The Ceiling? A firefighter from Fairfax County fire and rescue department works gently... before rescuing a small pet dog.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.