Sharlene Rood WATCH: Fist bumps, high fives and dance-offs - teacher lets children choose how to say hello A Western Cape teacher has gone above and beyond to make each of her Grade R learners feel special every single morning. Zuleka Smit hands out fist bumps, high fives and dance-offs at her class door instead of a traditional formal greeting. A Western Cape Teacher has gone above and beyond, to make each of her gr. R learners feel special, every single morning. Instead of greeting them with the ever familiar rhyme: Morning children, morning class, teacher Zuleka Smit hands out fist bumps, high five’s and dance-offs at her class door. (Paarl Boys’ Primary) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Western Cape teacher has gone above and beyond the call of duty to make each of her Grade R pupils feel special every single morning. Zuleka Smit hands out fist bumps, high fives and dance-offs at her class door instead of a traditional formal greeting. A video of her greeting each of the pupils at Paarl Boys' Primary in a manner of their choosing was posted to the school's Facebook page and has since gone viral with more than 527 000 views and 11 000 shares. In the video the children are seen queueing outside the classroom and taking turns to select one of the eight greetings on a placard by the door. Other options include hugs, an elbow bump, a smile hello, a handshake or a pinky shake. "It works really well. The children enjoy it immensely. They can't wait to greet me in the mornings to start their day in this way," Smit told News24. She said there was much excitement, so much so that the boys will tell her even before school starts that they already know what greeting they will select. "It helps us to start the day with a very relaxed atmosphere," Smit said. She stumbled on the idea while on holiday, searching for different ways to establish a relationship with her pupils. "Children can't learn if they don't have a relationship with their teacher," Smit said. Praise on social media "This is how I build a relationship with each of the little boys in my class." She said it also helps celebrate the children's uniqueness and it teaches them how to make choices from an early age. She recommended teachers try doing the same in their classes "even if it is only once". Smit said she hoped to send children out into the world who are responsible, self-assured and capable of dealing with change. Her actions have been lauded on social media. "This is the South Africa I am rooting for," Neville Stanley Paynter said. Donovan Stainbank said: "We need a couple hundred thousand more teachers like this." "What an incredibly beautiful way for a child to start their day. So many teachers can learn from this. Freaking awesome to watch," Wanita Dullisear commented. WATCH: Fire rescue Bambi trotting on the road to recovery At just a few months old, a rescued baby Cape Grysbok has touched the hearts of the many residents of the Cape overstrand area, which has recently been underthreat by a devastating fire for two weeks. Buffalo attempts to rescue baby elephant from lion's mouth In a rare show of bravery, a herd of buffalo tried to save a baby elephant from a pride of hungry lions. The video shows the lions on top of the upturned calf, trying to kill it. A herd of buffalo from a nearby watering hole heard the commotion. WATCH: Morningside driver outsmarts would-be hijackers A Johannesburg motorist escaped an attempted hijacking outside a complex in Morningside. 'The fire was higher than the roof here'- Hermanus farmer "Camphill, you've got 30 minutes until that fire is on you." These were the chilling words that came through as a Hermanus farm community, housing 54 intellectually disabled patients, was forced to evacuate. WATCH: Home affairs officials caught on their phones as people queue to be helped The Department of Home Affairs has said it will investigate after officials were filmed using their cellphones while on duty. WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.