Chelsea Pieterse A joint operation between Magma Security, Pietermaritzburg Crime Intelligence and Ladysmith police saw the arrest of two men who had allegedly been part of a gang terrorising the Ladysmith and Dundee area for the past few months. Guns and other items believed to have been stolen were recovered. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A spate of bloody incidents kept Mountain Rise Police busy over the New Year period. The first days of 2019 were marred by the deaths of three people, while cases of attempted murder, robbery and rape were also reported. Spokesperson Captain Gay Ebrahim said yesterday that a case of murder, one of culpable homicide and an inquest into the “freak death” of a Glenwood woman are being investigated by police. The freak accident ocurred in the early hours of New Year’s Day. A 58-year-old woman bled to death in her Glenwood home before emergency services could arrive. Mardine Sharpley’s two sons were reportedly about to leave their mother’s home, and had just pulled their vehicle out into the road, when they heard her screaming. On running back into the house, they discovered Sharpley kneeling on the floor. It’s believed that she fell over onto broken glass and, due to the serious nature of the wounds, bled to death. In another incident in the early hours of New Year’s Day, a 25-year-old man was shot and killed at the corner of Cinnamon Road and Adelaar Road in Eastwood. Ebrahim said Murdock Thomas (25) was shot three times, twice in the chest and once in the arm. He died at the scene. The circumstances surrounding the shooting are still being investigated, but a 30-year-old man has been arrested and appeared in court on Wednesday. A case of culpable homicide was also opened on New Year’s Day at the Mountain Rise police station after a man came in and reported that he might have knocked into someone on the Otto’s Bluff Road earlier that morning. “The man told the police that he had been driving on the road at around 2 am when he knocked into something. He told police that he had been too scared to pull his car over and waited until daylight to go back to the scene,” Ebrahim said. When the man went back, he found a person dead at the roadside dressed in very dark clothing. He has not yet been identified. In another incident in the Northdale area, a young man was stabbed nine times and had to have 23 stitches after attending a New Year’s church service that ended early on January 1. The man was with his girlfriend’s mother when he was attacked. The older woman is also believed to have been stabbed.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.