Sesona Ngqakamba WATCH: Prophet Bushiri takes responsibility for deadly church stampede Prophet Shepherd Bushiri on Monday appeared at the CRL Rights Commission hearing looking into the stampede that claimed three lives at the Enlightened Christian Gathering Church (ECG) in Pretoria. Prophet Bushiri along with church representatives before the CRL Rights Commission. (Sesona Ngqakamba, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Enlightened Christian Gathering Church (ECG) leader Prophet Bushiri has described the stampede at the Pretoria church in December in which three people died as "unfortunate". Bushiri, along with his attorney, Terrence Baloyi, presented evidence on Monday at the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities (CRL Rights Commission) hearing into the tragedy. The commission is currently mediating between ECG and the South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco). Sanco has been calling for the church to be closed since the incident. Bushiri explained that when a storm hit Pretoria on December 28 congregants panicked and caused a stampede in one of the halls where overflows of people were meant to be accommodated for a service that was to begin at around 22:00. READ: CRL establishes hearing to get to the bottom of stampede at Bushiri church WATCH: The church is bigger than Bushiri - ECG Church spokesperson Prophet Bushiri's Enlightened Christian Gathering church briefed the media on events following a deadly stampede at the church on December 28, 2018. "The church has an onsite paramedics company which handles emergency activities within the premises. The immediate report we got from them was that there has been a stampede at one of the halls, and using their ambulances they evacuated different people who suffered different injuries," Bushiri explained. He said the church was, however, assured by paramedics that everything was under control, and that three seriously injured people had been taken to a private medical care facility. Bushiri said he was then advised by the church, acting on assurances from paramedics, to proceed with the service. However, during the service, it transpired that the three had died. Church denies involvement in moving of bodies "It was in the last hours of the service when I was on the pulpit, when the church was informed that the three that were heavily injured had passed on and confirmed dead at the clinic, I was briefed after the service," he said. Representatives from the church are being sworn in before giving evidence to commissioners. Bushiri is now presenting the church background and how it goes about planning events. #ECGStampede #bushiri pic.twitter.com/QSqN2By5jK Bushiri said it should be noted that the church was not in any way involved in the transportation of the deceased. "The church only came to know through the media that there was a case of bodies being moved from the church without the police and taken to private mortuary," he said. Bushiri said the church later learnt that a case of defeating the ends of justice had been opened against it. Bushiri went on to say that following those developments, the church conducted an internal investigation that led to a pastor being suspended. He said the church further cooperated with the police. He added that the church had taken it upon itself to repatriate the bodies and ensure that burials are carried out smoothly. Compensation package "The church took all responsibility in liaising with three bereaved families, facilitating repatriation and leading the ceremony in other areas," he said. Bushiri added that he had personally visited two of the families and was still to meet the remaining family. He said the church was working on a compensation package to assist the bereaved families. "The church has also commenced an insurance claim process against public liability insurance. The church has further undertaken a stance to top up insurance claims," he said. Bushiri told the hearing that the church was compliant with health and safety regulations in terms of the City of Tshwane's events joint operations committee (JOC). He added that although there were reports that the church was given 30 days by the City of Tshwane to be compliant, it later emerged that the report was fake and that the City had distanced itself from it. There was 'enough' security "We have evacuation procedures in place, we have risk assessments that we present before JOC. The church being conducted at an event centre, subjects the church to JOC compliance requirements," Richard Ashan, the church's safety adviser said. He said the church was also required by the JOC to have sufficient registered security personnel. "Each and every service we do the head count, we know the number of people we have and accordingly, we have the sufficient security personnel," Ashan. The church also submitted that while it had enough marshals and security in place, the incident on the day was unforeseen and got so out of hand that marshals could not handle it. The hearings continue. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Mnangagwa and and his gangster must leave Zimbabwe alone - Zimbabweans Protesters marched to the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria on Wednesday in solidarity with their families who've been affected by the total shutdown in Zimbabwe Germany to phase out coal-powered electricity by 2038 Germany has agreed to shut down all coal-fired electricity plants by 2038. Pro-Brexit campaign fined & referred to police The official pro-Brexit campaign group has been fined and referred to the police by a UK watchdog for breaching spending rules. WATCH: Suspected Pretoria burglar caught breaking into school A 30-year-old suspect was arrested while breaking into a Pretoria Primary School on Wednesday morning. WATCH: Here's how a Ford Ranger Raptor is built Kyle Kock recently visited Ford's Silverton plant in Pretoria to find out first hand how a Ranger Raptor is built and also lending a hand in the build process. Cardi B showered with gifts by Offset after arrest Rapper Offset surprised his wife Cardi B with a bundle of designer gifts three days after he was arrested near Atlanta, Georgia. WATCH: 'Edna Molewa's life was one of sacrifice, selflessness and service'  - Cyril Ramaphosa An official funeral service for the late Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa was held in Pretoria on Saturday.

President Cyril Ramaphosa delivered the eulogy at the Tshwane Events Centre. Building a Ford Ranger Raptor Kyle Kock recently visited Ford's Silverton plant in Pretoria to find out first hand how a Ranger Raptor is built and also lending a hand in the build process. WATCH: Car-free zones piloted in Pretoria as part of Transport Month The City of Tshwane has created a temporary Car-Free Zone in the heart of Hatfield in Pretoria on Friday. WATCH: Truck carrying bitumen catches fire Part of the R21 near Irene in Pretoria was covered in a cloud of black smoke as a truck transporting bitumen caught fire. SA train collision leaves 600 injured A train collision in South Africa's capital Pretoria kills at least three and injures more than 600. WATCH: Huge cobra on the loose in Pretoria apartment block's drainage system Residents of a block of flats in Pretoria East are in for a slithery night as a venomous snouted cobra has taken refuge in the drainage system. WATCH: TUT students march to the police ministry over student death Chaos erupted on Wednesday as around 300 students marched through the Pretoria CBD protesting over the death of a student who was allegedly shot by police last week. WATCH: Weekend hail leaves parts of Pretoria covered in ice Severe weather conditions hit large parts of Gauteng this past weekend after the South African Weather Service (SAWS) issued a notice for severe thunderstorms across the province. WATCH: The Sasol Solar Challenge Sasol Solar Challenge 2018 took place from the 22nd to the 30th of September. A court interpreter in South Africa Royce Buda is one of the most important people at the Pretoria High Court. The interpreter speaks 16 languages and therefore he is vital in most cases. South Africa is a country with many languages. WATCH: Emergency personnel working to free people trapped under collided trains At least three people have been confirmed dead, while scores of others have been left injured following a train collision at Mountain View station, Pretoria on
Tuesday morning. WATCH: Straight from the horse's mouth - Pretoria preacher uses trusty steed to deliver sermon Seeing a man on a horse is a rare sight nowadays, and a man on his steed in a church, even more so. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: Outpouring of support in Pretoria after 300 people left homeless following shack fires On Saturday afternoon, 62 shacks burnt down in Plastic View informal settlement adjacent to the NG Gemeente in Moreletapark, Pretoria. The ever-changing graffiti canvas of Sao Paulo's Vila Madalena is a once in a lifetime experience The name says it all. It's the backdrop and set for insta-selfies and professional shoots alike. AB expects high quality cricket in Mzansi Super League Tshwane Spartans captain AB de Villiers admits that he is proud of South Africa hosting its own T20 tournament and expects an entertaining Mzansi Super League. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. WATCH: Trains collide at Mountain View station in Pretoria One person has been confirmed dead, while scores of others have been left injured following a train collision at Mountain View station, Pretoria on Tuesday morning. WATCH: Freedom Park residents demonstrate outside Luthuli House Luthuli House in the Johannesburg CBD should brace itself for a "sleepover" if the Gauteng government doesn't address issues raised by landless residents of Freedom Park in the south of the city. Three killed as trains collide in South Africa Authorities in South Africa say a train collision in Pretoria has killed three people and injured more than 200. The cause of the crash is under investigation. #OurLostChildren: Remembering Boitshoko Bopape - killed by falling street light Dimakatso Bopape misses the evening chats she would have with her only daughter, just before they turned in for the night. Springboks name squad for All Blacks clash at Loftus Versfeld Springbok coach Rassie Erasmus has made three changes to his starting XV for the clash against the All Blacks in Pretoria. WATCH: Mnangagwa and and his gangster must leave Zimbabwe alone - Zimbabweans A number of protesters marched to the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria on Wednesday in solidarity with their families who've been affected by the total shutdown in Zimbabwe.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.