Mxolisi Mngadi WATCH: Agrizzi claims he packed R50 000 a month for Minister Mokonyane Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi told the Zondo Commission that the company catered for ANC rallies and paid for the ruling party's birthday cake. Agrizzi was testifying about the relationship between Bosasa and Cabinet minister Nomvula Mokonyana DA's Mmusi Maimane. (Antonio Muchave, Sowetan, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Testimony at the state capture inquiry about facilities company Bosasa showed that the justice system must hand out stern punishments to corrupt politicians, DA leader Mmusi Maimane has said. Angelo Agrizzi, the former Bosasa chief operations officer turned whistleblower, has made startling allegations against high-profile politicians since beginning his testimony at the commission last week. Maimane on Wednesday said Agrizzi's testimony proved that former president Jacob Zuma was "not the only ANC member who was corrupt", and that harsher sentences needed to be meted out if people were convicted. "It shows the fact that the ANC is a corrupt organisation. My call is that we need 15 years (in jail) for corrupt politicians," Maimane said. READ: 'ANC not serious about tackling corruption head on' - DA in reaction to ANC manifesto launch "I hope all the people who have been implicated in the Bosasa (scandal) find themselves in jail and that, more seriously, we should stop putting people in Parliament, we should rather send them to prison. Our focus must be to rid the country of corruption, and what Bosasa is telling us is that to rid the country of corruption is to rid the country of the ANC," he said. #Maimane and DA supporters have now entered the KwaMnyandu Mall in Umlazi. #RegisterToVoteDA @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/1srdaFadFU Maimane was speaking to journalists outside the KwaMnyandu Mall in Umlazi, south of Durban, during his "Kasi-to-Kasi tour" in KwaZulu-Natal. Maimane said if he was in President Cyril Ramaphosa's shoes, he would have fired Environmental Affairs Minister and senior ANC official Nomvula Mokonyane from Cabinet, after she was implicated in testimony. Agrizzi testified that top ANC politicians, including Mokonyane, were on Bosasa's monthly payroll. Agrizzi said Mokonyane had been paid R50 000 a month for years, amongst other things, to protect Bosasa from law enforcement agencies. Mokonyane hit back at the commission, saying no appropriate platform had been provided for her to counter the claims, and that she was notified beforehand that she would be implicated. "We have to ask the question, why there has been no NPA investigation? We have to ask the question, why is Nomvula still a member of Cabinet?" Maimane continued. "Why are all these allegations, that are surfacing now, as if they are new revelations to President Ramaphosa?" he asked. 'No dealings with Bosasa' He said DA members had had no dealings with Bosasa. "The DA runs a clean open governance. We ensure that all our public representatives are accountable to the people," he said. Before speaking to the media, Maimane was warmly welcomed by informal traders and workers he interacted with inside and outside the mall. He encouraged them to register to vote in the upcoming final voter registration weekend on January 26 and 27. Maimane was accompanied by DA premier candidate Zwakele Mncwango and other senior DA members in the province. He said one of the challenges faced by people in KwaZulu-Natal was unemployment. "We want each and every household to at least have one person who is working because if people are not working the poverty rate increases. We want a South Africa that has police who work for the nation so that we are able to deal with corruption," he said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Agrizzi details unfair advantage given to Bosasa to secure 'one of the biggest' tenders Former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi is on the stand for the fifth day at the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry - Agrizzi to implicate more officials Former Bosasa chief operating officer Angelo Agrizzi will be back on the witness stand for a fifth day and more officials are expected to be implicated in his testimony. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry: Agrizzi continues his testimony, who will be implicated? Angelo Agrizzi has revealed more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Agrizzi, Watson paid regular visits to Mokonyane's house, along with R50 000 #StateCaptureInquiry | Angelo Agrizzi continues to reveal more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Bosasa and #StateCapture | Here's what you need to know... Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson emerges as 'kingpin of bribes' Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson has emerged as the absolute kingpin in the Bosasa empire of bribes, intimidation and cold hard cash. WATCH: Former Bossasa COO unpacks the bribes Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi on Thursday detailed the money trail allegedly used for bribing state entities. WATCH | 'Every single contract was tainted with bribes' - Agrizzi testifies #StateCaptureInquiry The second day of testimony by former Bosasa top boss Angelo Agrizzi in the commission of inquiry into state capture continues. WATCH: Bosasa spent between 'R4m and R6m a month' in cash bribes - Agrizzi at #StateCaptureInquiry Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi continues to testify at state capture inquiry - Day 2 The second day of testimony by former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi at the commission of inquiry into state capture is set to be far more explosive and damning for the ruling ANC party and his former colleagues. ANALYSIS | #StateCaptureInquiry: Unpacking Agrizzi's testimony Watch as News24 investigative journalist Kyle Cowen and journalist Jeanette Chabalala unpack former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi's revelations at the state capture commission.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.