Correspondent Sergeant Pieter de Lange (left).  (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 31-year-old man suspected of killing a policeman was arrested in Limpopo on Friday night, police said. The man is suspected of shooting dead Sergeant Pieter de Lange, 30, from Westenburg SAPS, who was killed by suspected drug dealers in November last year.The arrest was made by a multi-disciplinary team comprising the Hawks' Serious Organised Crime Investigation unit, Limpopo Crime Intelligence, Mankweng SAPS Tracing Team and the Westenburg SAPS detectives.Police spokesperson, Captain Matimba Maluleke, said the suspect will appear in the Seshego Magistrate's Court on Monday."During the suspect's arrest at his home in Seshego on Friday evening, members confiscated an unlicensed firearm and a motor vehicle suspectedly stolen," said Maluleke in a statement.He said that De Lange was gunned down in November last year during an encounter with suspected drug dealers, who were travelling in two vehicles at a notorious crime hotspot in Ladanna, Polokwane.On that fateful day, De Lange was on duty doing observations with regard to drug dealings in the area when he was gunned down whilst fighting back. He died on the way to hospital.The police investigation started in earnest, and the team recovered a stolen BMW not far from the crime scene, believed to have been used by assailants on the same day."After two months of labouring, a suspect will be charged with murder and possession of an unlicensed firearm when he appears in court. The search for the other outstanding criminals is still ongoing," Maluleke said. Three men between the ages of 32 and 40, who are believed to be part of a syndicate behind a spate of armed robberies in Groblersdal were also arrested on Friday evening by the same integrated team.According to Maluleke, one of the suspects was picked up in Mankweng and two were arrested in Botlokwa, where an unlicensed firearm was also recovered from one of them."The three suspects are expected to appear at Mankweng and Morebeng Magistrate's Courts respectively on Monday and will face charges relating to armed robberies and possession of an unlicensed firearm," Maluleke said. Suspect linked to the murder of Pieter de Lange, arrested in Seshego - ReviewDe Lange was shot and killed in November 2018, during an encounter with suspected drug dealers who were travelling in two vehicles at a notorious crime hotspot in Ladanna https://t.co/YfIzbb0ewm pic.twitter.com/bnmbEQL2Rj   WATCH: Thieves ambush and rob sleeping truck driver A video of a truck driver valiantly fighting off a suspected robber who broke into his truck while he was sleeping inside has surfaced on social media. College town mourns killing of rookie officer Just weeks on the Davis, California police force, 22-year-old Natalie Corona was shot and killed while investigating a traffic accident. The suspect was later found dead by apparent suicide. Five dead in Florida bank shooting Authorities say five people have been killed in a shooting at a Florida bank. Funeral held for rookie officer killed in shooting A 22-year-old California officer killed weeks into the job was a dedicated daughter and sister who represented the best of the police community, family and fellow officers said Friday at a packed memorial service. Ill. police have run-in with 'disorderly' squirrel Police officers in McHenry, Illinois, had a recent run-in with a 'disorderly' squirrel. The squirrel entered the police station through the front door and eventually left without injury. Chicago cop sentenced to more than six years for Laquan McDonald murder A judge sentences former Chicago police officer Jason Van Dyke to more than six years in prison, after a jury found him guilty of murder last year in the 2014 shooting of black teenager Laquan McDonald. Bodycam: Fugitive struggles with US police officer before being shot dead Video footage taken before the fatal shooting of a Pennsylvania man by a suburban Chicago police officer shows a struggle with the armed man who was wanted over the death of another man.

Police footage shows Lakemoor officer Brianna Tedesco appro... Wisconsin girl found alive after three months After missing for nearly three months, 13-year-old Jayme Closs was found alive Thursday evening after she apparently fled her captor in the remote community of Gordon, Wisconsin. Colette Luke has more. Laquan McDonald cover up case ends in acquittal A judge has acquitted three Chicago police officers of trying to cover up the 2014 shooting of Laquan McDonald, ruling that the dashcam video of the black teenager's death did not necessarily tell the whole story. Attacker wounds 20 children at Beijing school Workers from Beijing's Criminal Investigation Department leave an elementary school after twenty children were wounded in an attack with three suffering serious injuries. Fail: man tries to steal bike from police station Ignoring a big sign and a surveillance camera, a man attempts to steal a bicycle from outside an Oregon police station.  He doesn't get very far. Civilian RCMP board to help modernize police force: Goodale Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale announced Wednesday a new civilian advisory board to help the RCMP modernize. Goodale says the interim board will be in place by April and will help the police force focus on employee well-being. Restless squirrel gives US police officer the runaround A restless squirrel gives a police officer in Illinois a fright when it accidentally made its way into the police department. Police carding has ‘minimal role’ in reducing crime: Judge A judge who reviewed street checks by Ontario police says resources should focus on people “reasonably suspected” of crimes and not on random carding, which Justice Michael Tulloch says alienates racialized communities. 148,000 police on duty in France as 'yellow vests' call protests French Interior Minister Christophe Castaner announces that 148,000 members of the security forces will be mobilised for New Year's Eve in France. Video shows struggle between fugitive, officer Video footage taken before the fatal shooting of a Pennsylvania man by a suburban Chicago police officer shows a struggle with the armed man who was wanted in the death of another man. $5M bail set for suspect in murder-abduction case A Wisconsin judge has set bail at $5 million for the suspect in the abduction of 13-year-old Jayme Closs and the killing of her two parents. Police: 5 dead, gunman arrested in bank shooting Authorities say five people have been killed in a shooting at a Florida bank and the gunman has been arrested. Chris Brown denies rape after arrest and release U.S. Singer Chris Brown has denied rape allegations in a social media post, following his arrest and release in Paris. No charges have been brought against him. Family of alleged spy in Russia says he's innocent A retired U.S. Marine detained by Russia on spying charges was visiting Moscow for a wedding and is innocent, his family said on Tuesday. Chris Dignam has more. WATCH: Limpopo diesel thief drives off without paying R3 179 bill A white Ford Ranger bakkie was caught on CCTV camera making off with fuel worth R3 179, without paying a cent. Car bonnet hampers getaway for robbery suspects in Texas Texas police arrested a group suspected in a series of bank robberies after the bonnet on their getaway car covered the windshield as they were driving away on January 17. $500K bail set for suspect in 4 Nevada killings A judge has set bail at $500,000 for 19-year-old Wilber Ernesto Martinez-Guzman from El Salvador accused of possessing weapons and pawning property stolen from victims in four Nevada killings. Prosecutors say they plan to file murder charges Arrest of model after claims of Russian interference in US election A model who claimed she had evidence of Russian interference in the US election has been arrested. Anastasia Vashukevich was met by Moscow Police at Sheremeteyevo airport. Jay-Z lends support to criminal justice campaign New York-born rapper Jay-Z has thrown his support behind a campaign to reform the US criminal justice system. WATCH: Joburg security guard wounded in shootout with armed robbery suspects A security guard was shot and wounded as he investigated a suspected business robbery on the corner of Prichard and Mooi Streets in Johannesburg last Saturday afternoon. Charged and Disbarred - Part 6 Sylvia Stolz is a German lawyer convicted of denying the Holocaust. Norwegian real-estate tycoon's wife kidnapped The wife of a wealthy Norwegian businessman has gone missing in a rare suspected kidnapping, and her family has reportedly received a $10,000,000 ransom demand to be paid in cryptocurrency. Jehovah's Witness fears repeat of Stalin's Russia The first Jehovah's Witness detained for extremism in Russia has likened the authorities' behavior to that of Josef Stalin's Soviet Union ahead of a verdict in his trial. Sebring police chief laments Florida bank shooting Sebring police chief laments the death of five women who were killed when a gunman took over SunTrust Bank branch in Sebring, Florida On-the-run speedboat killer Jack Shepherd hands himself in Speedboat killer Jack Shepherd has been arrested in Georgia after handing himself in to authorities following months as a fugitive.

He went on the run pending his Old Bailey trial over the death of 24-year-old Charlotte Brown, and was convicted i... Nissan's Carlos Ghosn denied bail, again Carlos Ghosn’s latest request for bail has been rejected by a Tokyo court, despite the ousted Nissan chairman offering to wear an electronic ankle tag in an unusual bid to win release after two months of detention for alleged financial crimes. AP Top Stories January 7 Here's the latest for Monday January 7th: Trump says gov't workers have to make 'adjustments' during shutdown; US and China talk trade in Beijing; Suspect arrested in death of 7-year-old Texas girl; Family of five and suspected drunk driver die in... WATCH: Police arrest KZN man who threatened to blow up office workers Police have arrested a KwaZulu-Natal man who threatened to blow up office workers with a bomb. Ariana Grande apologises over '7 Rings' controversy Ariana Grande is apologising for causing any offence after appearing to brush off the controversy surrounding her new song '7 rings', which she has been accused of stealing from rapper Princes Nokia's 1992 track 'Mine' Fugitive Italian ex-militant Battisti arrives in Rome Extradited former Italian communist militant Cesare Battisti arrives at the Rome airport after an international police squad tracked him down and arrested him in Bolivia. Jailed in 1979 for belonging to an armed revolutionary group outlawed in Ita... The International Criminal Court Videographic on the International Criminal Court. The ICC on Tuesday acquitted former Ivory Coast president Laurent Gbagbo of all charges of crimes against humanity over post-electoral violence in the West African nation, and ordered his immediate... Car hood hampers getaway for robbery suspects Police in Texas have arrested a group of people suspected in a series of bank robberies after the hood on the car they were using to flee authorities popped up and covered the windshield, obscuring the road. ICC acquits former Ivory Coast strongman Gbagbo The International Criminal Court acquits former Ivory Coast president Laurent Gbagbo of all charges of crimes against humanity over post-electoral violence in the West African nation, and orders his immediate release.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.