Alex Mitchley WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. Elana Barkhuizen speaks on her suspension from Schweizer-Reneke primary school in the North West. (Alex Mitchley, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher Elana Barkhuizen maintains that her suspension is factually flawed on a number of grounds. In court papers which News24 has seen, Barkhuizen says she should not have been suspended as she was not the teacher who allegedly separated black learners from their white classmates, and that she was never given an opportunity to correct the misinformation. The teacher also contends that she was not informed of the intention to suspend her, and she was not provided with reasons for the suspension. The papers were served on Laerskool Schweizer-Reneke, the school's governing body, North West Education MEC Sello Lehari and the North West Department of Education. WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. Barkhuizen was suspended last week after a photograph showing four black Grade R children sitting at a separate table from white children went viral on social media and sparked wide outrage. Not my class "I respectfully deem it imperative to point out from the onset in this affidavit that the photograph which led to the said public outrage, and to my suspension, was not a photograph of my Grade R classroom, but in fact, of a different class," Barkhuizen said in court papers. "Consequently and to the extent that I was suspended for allegedly seating learners of different races separately in my classroom. Such suspension was premised on the wrong factual matrix." Barkhuizen added that if she was heard out, as required by law, she would have been able to correct any misconceptions and also advance an explanation as to why she took the photographs and shared them on a WhatsApp group. Events prior leading to the suspension Barkhuizen also offered up a sequence of events that led to the placement of the learners, the photographs being taken, and her subsequent suspension. The teacher explained that there were two Grade R classrooms and that the class where the children were allegedly separated along racial lines was under the care of Elsabe Olivier. She said that both her and Olivier had invited the parents of the learners to visit the respective classrooms prior to the school year, which officially kicked off on January 9. READ: STATEMENT: 'Do not be sorry for me – I will not surrender' – Schweizer-Reneke teacher "I explained my approach to seating arrangements in my class, particularly with reference to individual learners' needs and requirements." On the day the photographs were taken, Olivier had to attend to a parent and asked that Barkhuizen supervise both classrooms. It was during this time that she took two photographs of Olivier's class and two of her own. She said this was done for the parents who were inquiring about their little ones. She created a WhatsApp group to make the process of interacting with the parents a little easier. According to Barkhuizen, after the controversy erupted over the images, she and Olivier had offered an explanation, and that the principal and governing body chairperson had said that they would support her and would settle the matter. She added that one parent did contact her to complain about the photograph posted on WhatsApp, and also to complain that there was no longer a 10% discount on fees. In addition, she argued that the other photographs were not referenced during discussions to suspend her. Racism Barkhuizen added that the one photograph was used by various political parties for opportunism as, well as by Lehari to publicly state that the picture depicted her classroom and that she was a racist. "I detest racism. And certainly I detest racism in any education environment. I pride myself on devotion to teach all learners, regardless of race and gender, with equal passion and energy." READ MORE: Laerskool Schweizer-Reneke: Principal, teacher facing suspension amid probe - source Barkhuizen added that Laerskool Schweizer-Reneke was an Afrikaans-language school, but that a constructive effort had been made to accommodate learners who had difficulties with Afrikaans and, in some instances, with English as well. She said that the school made use of interpreters and that the person who usually helped her with translations was dismissed in December 2018. "In order to address the said challenges, I requested my domestic worker to accompany me to school in order to facilitate interpretation and translation until permanent arrangements in this regard were made," Barkhuizen said. On the issue of seating, Barkhuizen said that, during the first school day, seating arrangements were often changed depending on the relevant needs and requirements of the learners. In the court papers, it is also argued that Barkhuizen is employed by the school and its governing body, not the department of education, and therefore Lehari had no locus standi to suspend her. It is also contended that the MEC is the person that suspended her and not the school's SGB. Department response North West education department spokesperson Freddy Sepeng told News24 that they had not yet received the court papers. Previously, Sepeng told News24 that it was the principal and the SGB who had suspended Barkhuizen, but that the department supported their decision. When asked why Olivier wasn't suspended, as it was her classroom that was photographed, Sepeng explained that the only person who had been implicated by the principal and SGB was Barkhuizen. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral. Primary School's unique weather forecast Snow-joke from the Saint Oliver Plunkett Primary School weather centre Meet the girl whose teacher is a radio Could broadcasting school lessons solve Africa's education crisis? The BBC spoke to a pupil in the Democratic Republic of Congo who is learning through the radio. David Oakes: Schools should teach lesser known Shakespeare plays Victoria star David Oakes has said he would like to see the lesser known Shakespeare plays taught in schools.

The actor, best known for playing Prince Ernest in the ITV period drama, said an attempt should be made to broaden people's horizons, ra... WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. WATCH: Cape pupil awarded for matriculating after surviving deadly fire Lance Minnies came close to losing his life in a deadly 2016 fire and almost gave up on his studies when he recovered. But it was the hope for a better future and the support of caring people at his school that pulled him through. WATCH: Grade 1 pupil gets ready for big school Starting Grade 1 is a big step for little ones. For Luca (6), getting ready for school took quite some time on Wednesday morning, but he soon got into the swing of things. From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg. WATCH: This 30-year-old family business is a school hotspot for Joburg families Gauteng schools open on Wednesday and parents are on the hunt for affordable school uniforms. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. WATCH: Intercape bus driver suspended after being filmed driving recklessly There have been a numerous fatalities and mishaps on SA's roads since the beginning of the festive season.

Now, as we enter the height of celebrations, more reports of risky driving and fatalities have emerged. WATCH: 127 inmates receive qualifications at inspirational graduation ceremony The Department of Correctional Services handed out 127 qualifications, including one master's degree, to graduating offenders on Friday. Watch the video above. WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg. WATCH: This father says outsourcing at Eskom is hurting his kids' future When Tshepang's* first child was born, he dropped out of school to seek work. He has worked as a contractor at various state entities. His current contract sees his salary filtered through two labour broking companies before it reaches him.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.