Kamva Somdyala A firefighter battling the blaze in Van Der Stel Pass.  (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories While a blaze on Cape Town's Signal Hill has been brought under control, firefighting efforts are still continuing at the Van Der Stel Pass near Grabouw in the Western Cape, officials have said. The fire in Grabouw has been "60-80% contained", Western Cape local government spokesperson James-Brent Styan said. "This means they aren't fully under control, but teams will be on site the whole day," he said. See: PICS: Van Der Stel Pass fire lines 'much better', but fire not yet contained WATCH: Fire engulfs Lion's Head Families living in Sea Point, Cape Town evacuated their homes on Sunday evening as the flames that engulfed the lower slopes of Lion's Head near Quarry Hill were coming down on them. Styan said they were lucky that there wasn’t much damage to property, as the bulk of the fire was in the veld area. "It’s always tricky with the wind," he added. The South African Weather Service predicted a maximum temperature of 35°C on Monday and a top wind speed of 28km/h. On Saturday, Capetonians took to Twitter to complain about smoke hovering over much of the City Bowl, southern suburbs and northern suburbs areas, as the winds blew smog eastwards from Grabouw. Officials on Sunday said the fire lines on the pass were much better, but tricky weather conditions were making things unpredictable. Read more: UPDATE: Cape Town fire under control City of Cape Town Fire and Rescue spokesperson Theo Layne said firefighting crews would remain in the Signal Hill area all day on Monday to deal with "hotspots" and to ensure that no flare-ups occur. News24 reported on Monday that the fire, which had spread along the slopes of Signal Hill and Lion’s Head on Sunday, was now largely under control. "There are two helicopters still water bombing the Glen side of Lion's Head. There were no injuries of any firefighters, however, a person who appears to have been sleeping on the mountain sustained 45% burns," Cape Town mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith said. News24 had earlier reported that officials were still evaluating the area on the lower slopes of Lion's Head near Quarry Hill, where some had evacuated their homes. WATCH: Overstrand fire rages on Air support has been brought in to battle a large fire in the Overstrand area in the Western Cape. The fire has devastated areas close to Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els. WATCH: This Garden Route 'firenado' is actually a fire whirl "Firenados" are more correctly called fire whirls, explained South African Weather Service chief forecaster Kevin Rae after a video capturing the phenomena made the rounds over the weekend. 'The fire was higher than the roof here'- Hermanus farmer "Camphill, you've got 30 minutes until that fire is on you." These were the chilling words that came through as a Hermanus farm community, housing 54 intellectually disabled patients, was forced to evacuate. WATCH: Edenvale fire victims overwhelmed by donations after losing everything Rebecca Mtya and her mother recently lost everyting in a fire, but members of the Edenvale community have opened up their hearts and wallets in order to get them back on their feet again. WATCH: Farming community in George is a ghost town following a fire that claimed 8 lives The farming community of Farleigh in the Southern Cape is a ghost town following a fire that claimed eight lives on Tuesday. WATCH: Western Cape firefighters end gruelling day with uplifting song A group of firefighters returned to their base at the Crassula hall in Betty's Bay on Friday, with song and dance. WATCH: Flames engulf Kempton Park bus fleet Quick-acting firefighters in the east of Johannesburg were able to extinguish a blaze that engulfed a fleet of parked vehicles, late last week. WATCH: Betty's Bay fire victim shares heartbreaking experience of the blaze A Betty's Bay resident has spoken out about the trauma of losing her home in a fire that raged through the town at the weekend. WATCH: Firefighters leave Overstrand with song and dance The firefighters who tirelessly battled to bring a raging fire in the Overstrand area under control have held a parade to thank the community for their support. WATCH: Firefighter fight blaze to save hectares of Paarl fynbos destroyed in fire At least 500ha of 15-year-old fynbos was lost in the fire that swept through part of Paarl mountain, the Drakenstein municipality said as they scaled down on operations on Friday. WATCH: St Francis Bay residents evacuated over runaway fire The Kouga Municipality in the Eastern Cape has ordered residents of St Francis Bay to evacuate their homes due to a runaway fire currently burning down a number of houses in the area on Tuesday. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits. WATCH: More than 1 300 homeless after Khayelitsha blaze More than 1300 people have been left homeless after hundreds of shacks were destroyed in a blaze which broke out in Khayelitsha, the City of Cape Town said. WATCH: From the cockpit - Pilot's view of the Garden Route fires Firefighting efforts intensified on the Garden Route in the Southern Cape this past weekend, as fires raged, leaving destruction in their wake. WATCH: At least 31 houses destroyed in Overstrand wildfires; video shows devastation in Betty's Bay At least 31 houses have been completely destroyed and 28 partially damaged by wildfires on the coastal Overstrand region in the Western Cape. WATCH: No injuries or fatalities in South African factory fire Johannesburg emergency services spent hours trying to contain a fire that broke out in a glue and paper factory in Kya Sands, Johannesburg, on Wednesday morning.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.