Kyle Cowan Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo. (Deaan Vivier/Gallo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Pretoria chief magistrate Desmond Nair, who presided over Oscar Pistorius's bail application, has been implicated in the fast growing Bosasa scandal unfolding at the state capture commission of inquiry. Nair allegedly accepted the installation of R200 000 worth of security systems at his Pretoria home, including a full electric fence, CCTV and alarm systems. This was revealed by Bosasa employee Richard le Roux, who testified before the commission on Thursday. Le Roux, who was issued with a summons to appear before the commission, works for Global Technology Systems, a subsidiary of Bosasa previously known as Sondolo IT. READ: State capture inquiry live update Le Roux could not confirm the position held by Nair, but News24 has been informed by a Bosasa source with knowledge of the matter, that his reference was to the chief magistrate in Pretoria. Bosasa is now known as African Global Operations. When contacted by News24, Nair replied with a brief response: "I have noted the report and have referred the matter to my legal representatives to follow the legal processes." The majority of Le Roux's testimony was taken up with evidence surrounding "special projects" undertaken by Le Roux on instruction of various Bosasa directors, including CEO Gavin Watson, chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi, as well as Trevor Mathenjwa, Syvion Dlamini and Papa Leshabane. The special projects entailed the installation of security systems, including electric fencing, CCTV and alarm systems, at various homes of politicians and government officials around the country. This includes Environmental Affairs Minister Nomvula Mokonyane, current Mineral Resources Minister Gwede Mantashe (at the time ANC secretary general), former SAA chair Dudu Myeni, deputy minister of Correctional Services Thabang Makwetla, ANC MP Vincent Smith and the one-time procurement manager at Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa), Mbulelo Gingcana. Gingcana was seconded to Prasa at the time, but is employed full-time by the Civil Aviation Authority. Long-time Bosasa ally, former Correctional Services commissioner Linda Mti, was also on the receiving end of installations at two of his properties in the Eastern Cape. News24 first reported on the installations in September last year, all paid for by Bosasa. READ: Mantashe, Mokonyane scored big in Bosasa bonanza Le Roux's evidence before the commission on Thursday corroborated the allegations and News24 reports over what the installations consisted of: • CCTV and recording systems, and perimeter lighting for mineral resources minister Mantashe's house in Boksburg and homes in Cala and Elliot in the Eastern Cape, valued at R300 000; • An electric fence, alarm system, CCTV system and computer server worth R350 000 for Makwetla's home; • A R150 000 alarm and CCTV system for Gingcana's Randburg home; • Electric fencing, CCTV and an alarm system worth R250 000 for Myeni's Richards Bay home; • R350 000 worth of work – including 4km of electric fencing and perimeter lighting, and alarm system repairs – to two of Mti's properties, in Colchester and Greenbushes outside Port Elizabeth; and • Electric fencing and a CCTV system worth R200 000 at Smith's Roodepoort home. Paid in cash Le Roux told the commission that all the costs were borne by Bosasa and paid for in cash, so as to avoid a money trail. He recounted how he met Myeni in the kitchen of her home to provide feedback on the work he and his team were busy with, and how Watson told him to ensure that every request by Mokonyane was dealt with as a priority. The initial work at Mokonyane's Krugersdorp property included fixing the pool pump, which was causing "the pool to go green all the time" and cleaning up the garden, along with the installation of new security systems and work on electrical issues. He was instructed to remove serial numbers from the equipment installed, and to avoid a situation where it could be traced back to Bosasa.  WATCH: Bosasa and #StateCapture | Here's what you need to know... Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi testifies at state capture inquiry The Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture resumed on Wednesday with former Bosasa employee Angelo Agrizzi on the witness stand. LISTEN: 'That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. LISTEN: That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. LISTEN: Bosasa bosses Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma [WITH SUBTITLES] In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. WATCH: 'Give me a tender' - sings satirical 'Elvis' on Bosasa scandal The much-talked about Bosasa scandal has gripped South Africa over the past week since former chief-operating officer Angelo Agrizzi blew the whistle on bribery and corruption. LISTEN: Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. WATCH: Agrizzi details unfair advantage given to Bosasa to secure 'one of the biggest' tenders Former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi is on the stand for the fifth day at the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry - Agrizzi to implicate more officials Former Bosasa chief operating officer Angelo Agrizzi will be back on the witness stand for a fifth day and more officials are expected to be implicated in his testimony. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry: Agrizzi continues his testimony, who will be implicated? Angelo Agrizzi has revealed more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Agrizzi claims he packed R50 000 a month for Minister Mokonyane Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi told the Zondo Commission that the company catered for ANC rallies and paid for the ruling party's birthday cake. Agrizzi was testifying about the relationship between Bosasa and Cabinet minister Nomvula Mokonyana WATCH: Agrizzi, Watson paid regular visits to Mokonyane's house, along with R50 000 #StateCaptureInquiry | Angelo Agrizzi continues to reveal more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson emerges as 'kingpin of bribes' Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson has emerged as the absolute kingpin in the Bosasa empire of bribes, intimidation and cold hard cash. WATCH: Former Bossasa COO unpacks the bribes Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi on Thursday detailed the money trail allegedly used for bribing state entities. WATCH | 'Every single contract was tainted with bribes' - Agrizzi testifies #StateCaptureInquiry The second day of testimony by former Bosasa top boss Angelo Agrizzi in the commission of inquiry into state capture continues. ANALYSIS | #StateCaptureInquiry: Unpacking Agrizzi's testimony Watch as News24 investigative journalist Kyle Cowen and journalist Jeanette Chabalala unpack former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi's revelations at the state capture commission. WATCH: Bosasa spent between 'R4m and R6m a month' in cash bribes - Agrizzi at #StateCaptureInquiry Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi continues to testify at state capture inquiry - Day 2 The second day of testimony by former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi at the commission of inquiry into state capture is set to be far more explosive and damning for the ruling ANC party and his former colleagues. South Africa's ex-president just signed a record deal Former president Jacob Zuma, who is implicated in a major corruption scandal, has been given a taxpayer-funded record deal. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.