Sharlene Rood WATCH: Rat feasts at salad bar of Food Lover's Market in Diepkloof Square Food Lover's Market is investigating a rodent problem, after a video of a rat, gnawing away at the salad bar in its Diepkloof Square store surfaced on social media. Food Lover’s Market is investigating a rodent problem. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories An outbreak of a food-borne bacterium in South Africa has sent 557 people to hospital, and caused 36 fatalities. Watch. WATCH Two separate rodent incidents have left Food Lover's Market customers seething on social media. While Food Lover’s Market said it was investigating a rodent problem, after a video of a rat gnawing away at the salad bar at its Diepkloof Square store surfaced on social media, a second video surfaced online showing what appears to be two baby rodents crawling over a bag of apples at Jabulani Mall. Food Lover’s Market said it viewed the Diepkloof incident in a serious light. "We have launched an investigation to establish the source of the rodent problem," it said in a statement, adding that their last health and safety inspectorate audit had taken place in November. WATCH: Baby rodents frolic in fruit section at Food Lover's Market Jabulani Mall "I'm not going to lie, it was pretty disgusting," shopper Bongani Mtshali told News24, after he witnessed to baby rodents crawling over a bag of apples at the Food Lover's Market in Jabulani Mall. "The store is also contracted to the pest control company, Rentokil", and it does "regular inspections and provide the necessary services regarding to rodent and pest control". 'Pretty disgusting' The Jabulani Mall incident was filmed and posted to Facebook by shopper Bongani Mtshali on December 31. "I’m not going to lie, it was pretty disgusting," he told News24. "If these are two baby rats .... That clearly means there should be a mother rat and siblings somewhere lurking around in the food area," he said. "I’d hate to imagine the cross-contamination happening in this store." Mtshali said he had alerted the manager before leaving the store without purchasing anything, and that two or three other patrons had followed suit. "The manager was subtle about it. She just called somebody to remove the rodents," he said. The produce, however, stayed on the shelf. "Somebody else probably came in there and bought that packet," Mtshali said. "Maybe I would have felt better if they had sealed off that area and then just checked and removed the food in the area." Facebook apology Food Lover’s Market responded to Mtshali's subsequent Facebook post, apologising for his "terrible" experience. "I am so sorry about the terrible experience. I will notify the store with urgency. Please send me your contact number so that I can have the store contact you," their response read. Mtshali says no one has been in touch with him yet. "One thing I do know is I’m not going to set foot back at Food Lover’s Market," he said. 'Test loving' Faf believes T20 is responsible for shorter 5-day games Proteas skipper Faf du Plessis admits that he is a massive fan of Test cricket and believes T20 cricket is responsible for shorter five-day matches. WATCH: Western Cape firefighters end gruelling day with uplifting song A group of firefighters returned to their base at the Crassula hall in Betty's Bay on Friday, with song and dance. WATCH: Police investigate assault at Pretoria pub after owner and employee exchange blows Police are investigating a case of common assault after a man, believed to be an employee of Die Watergat Pub in Pretoria North, was assaulted outside the establishment, presumably by his boss. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. WATCH: Diver struggles to wade through trash in Durban harbour Video footage of a diver struggling to make his way out of the Durban harbour due to a line of trash has surfaced on social media. WATCH: Congestion at toll gate as holidaygoers head home The holidays seem to be over for most, if the number of vehicles on the country's roads are anything to go by.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.