Correspondent The MSC Musica.  (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cruise ship passengers aboard the MSC Musica might finally be able to set foot on Cape Town soil early on Saturday morning, if the wind plays along. The cruise ship, carrying 2 000 passengers, has been unable to dock since its arrival in Table Bay on Thursday due to strong winds. On Saturday, Cape Town traffic services' Richard Coleman confirmed to News24 that the MSC Musica was finally able to dock at around 06:00. READ: Just one more night out at sea for MSC Musica passengers...hopefully Ross Volk, managing director of MSC Cruises, said the company had designed an entertainment regimen to keep passengers engaged, Times Live reported. He also said there were sufficient provisions on board. The final decision to dock ultimately lies with the captain, he added, with the welfare of the passengers being of primary importance. Some passengers took to social media to express their feelings on being marooned, while others thanked MSC for its handling of the incident. #MSCMusica passengers have finally disembarked at CT harbour. The cruise ship has been unable to dock since Thursday due to wind. Some tourists aboard say they angry and irritated, unlikely to return to SA @ewnreporter pic.twitter.com/uE6xHgi5Ns @MSCcruisesSA why ask everyone to come to the terminal at 8am when you will only being boarding in 2.5 hours!!!! Haven’t we been inconvenienced enough already? Now we will stand 2.5 hours in the blazing sun ??#MSCMusica After a 2 day wait... this makes it worth it!! @MSCcruisesSA #MSCMusica #CapeTown off they go!!! #Durban #PortugueseIslands pic.twitter.com/ERvlOgtCgG Hopefully getting off the boat tomorrow morning in'shaa'Allah?? don't get me wrong, I've been loving every minute of it. Especially the free food??, but after a while you crave your own space man. But alhamdulilah, it's been great. The best holiday I've been on so far #MSCMusica   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.