Correspondent WATCH: Agrizzi details unfair advantage given to Bosasa to secure 'one of the biggest' tenders Former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi is on the stand for the fifth day at the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. Helen Zille. (Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Western Cape Premier Helen Zille has taken to Twitter threatening that if those implicated in the Zondo commission of inquiry aren't jailed in a reasonable time, she would organise a tax revolt. Zille's comments come on the same day that South Africans throughout the country are registering to vote in the upcoming general elections to be held in May. On Saturday morning, a seemingly fed-up Zille tweeted that she had tried the electoral for years, but it seemed that voters "enjoy" voting for corruption.  In another tweet, she added that this election will be the last chance for voters to vote against corruption and if "voters fail the democracy test again", it will be time for additional methods. Zille's comments on boycotting taxes aren't new; earlier this week, she also threatened to mobilise a tax strike to bring the ANC government to its senses, going as far to say that anyone who gives the governing party another chance, is an accomplice. While Zille tweeted on tax boycotts, the DA, in a statement, said that, overall, the party was happy with voter registration across the country on Saturday. DA national spokesperson Solly Malatsi did, however, raise concerns about alleged incidents in Vuwani, Krugersdorp and Stutterheim, where protest action is keeping voters from registering to vote. "We call on the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) and the South African Police Service (SAPS) to defuse tensions and ensure that these stations remain open to enable the free movement of voters," said Malatsi. Malatsi added that the most powerful protest actions takes place at the ballot box. "Ultimately the power to vote for real change and usher in a new government that puts the people first is in the hands of voters." "There is a real urgency, for all people to come out and register to help us to bring change and to build One South Africa for All."    WATCH: Bosasa and #StateCapture | Here's what you need to know... Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. Madagascar: Rajaonarimampianina casts his vote in 2018 election Presidential candidate Hery Rajaonarimampianina votes in the first round of Madagascar's 2018 election. Rajaonarimampianina is one of three leading candidates, all of whom are former heads of state, now facing-off amid efforts to defuse a politica... Polls close in Madagacar's presidential election Polls close in Madagascar's presidential election, which has seen voters choose from a packed field of candidates led by three former heads of state pitching their ideas for ending a political crisis and boosting the economy. Italy looks set for another election With coalition talks appearing to break down between bickering parties, a fresh election looks likely for Italy. MP cradles baby in Commons during push for proxy voting A former minister cradled her baby on Parliament's famous green benches - in what is thought to be a first during a Commons debate. Polls open in Brazil presidential run-off Brazil begins voting in a divisive presidential run-off election whose front-runner, far-right former army captain Jair Bolsonaro, is vowing to rescue the country from crisis with a firm grip. Gay rights supporters celebrate failure of vote on same sex marriage ban Gay rights supporters celebrated after a referendum to change Romania's constitution to prevent same sex couples from securing the right to marry failed to draw enough voters to validate the result on Sunday. SCOTUS upholds Ohio voter rolls purge policy The U.S. Supreme Court on Monday revived Ohio's contentious policy of purging infrequent voters from its registration rolls, dealing a setback to voting rights proponents months ahead of the midterm elections. Incumbent Keita wins Mali run-off election Malian President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita has won re-election with 67 percent of the vote in a run-off against opposition rival Soumaila Cisse. The victory hands Keita a second term in the mostly desert West African country where militant violence a... Turkey's electoral system explained Since the 1960s, Turkey's Supreme Election Council has been overseeing elections in the country and ensuring that it takes place under fair, transparent and equal conditions. GA voting rights lawsuit targets GOP's Kemp U.S. voting rights advocacy groups are suing Georgia's top election official, Secretary of State Brian Kemp, accusing him of putting more than 50,000 voter registration applications on hold to boost his gubernatorial campaign. Claims of 'dirty tricks' in Malaysia vote Malaysian politicians from both government and opposition camps complained of "dirty tricks" after voting in a general election began on Wednesday, as non-stop spam calls to their mobile phones disrupted communications with party organisers. 'We'll vote wherever they take our ballot boxes' Turkey's president seeks re-election on 24 June and Kurdish voters may play an important part in determining his future. Watson: 'The country feels genuinely sorry for the PM' Tom Watson urges MPs to vote for a general election Polls close in Mali as run-off marred by violence Polls closed in Mali's run-off presidential election on Sunday (August 12) as security sources confirmed that the chief of one polling station was killed by armed assailants in the Timbuktu region. Thailand's election to be held March 24: Election Commission An Election Commission official says Thailand will hold elections on March 24, the first poll since a military coup in 2014. UK needs to 'deliver on the Brexit referendum' says trade minister Liam Fox There's one message British trade minister Liam Fox wants everyone to know: the UK must "deliver on the (Brexit) referendum." Who are youth in the US voting for in midterm elections? US midterm elections are around the corner, and this year's turnout could be historic, thanks to young people. Who are youth in the US voting for in midterm elections? US midterm elections are around the corner, and this year's turnout could be historic, thanks to young people. An unusually high number of youth intend to vote in the Nov 6. elections, suggesting a possible shift in American politics. #Midterms201... Bangladesh's Hasina wins, opposition demands new elections Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina's party wins the general election, as the opposition alliance rejects the results and calls for a fresh vote. Congo vote loser says he won by a landslide The runner-up in Democratic Republic of Congo's presidential vote says he'll file a fraud complaint, and that he won the poll by a landslide. Lucy Fielder and Giulia Paravicini report. Ballot boxes delivered in helicopter for Irish Presidential elections Voting is under way on a number of islands in Ireland's presidential election.

Ballot boxes were delivered to 11 islands off the coast of counties Donegal, Mayo and Galway on Thursday morning. Polls open in Bangladesh general election People wait in line outside a polling station in Dhaka as polls open and voting begins in Bangladesh's general election which is expected to deliver a record fourth term for Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. Congo's faithful fearful over election delay Partial results in the Democratic Republic of Congo's election were expected on Sunday. Instead they have been delayed, raising fears of violence and attempts to rig the poll. David Doyle reports Polls close in Goma in DR Congo elections Polling stations close in the eastern city of Goma, in the Democratic Republic of Congo. After two years of delays, crackdowns and political turmoil, the country voted in presidential elections that will determine the future of Africa's notoriousl... Felons emotional as they register to vote in Fla. The right to vote was restored for most Florida felons as of Tuesday, increasing the pool of eligible voters by as many as 1.4 million people in a battleground state infamous for its narrow margins in key elections Delays, storms mar start to Congo's presidential vote Voting in Democratic Republic of Congo's long-anticipated presidential election got off to a shaky start on Sunday due to torrential rain in the capital, long delays at some polling stations and broken-down machines. Bangladesh PM Hasina wins third straight term despite vote-rigging claims Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina's alliance won Bangladesh's election with a thumping majority, the country's Election Commission said on Monday, giving her a third straight term following a vote that the opposition rejected as rigged. One candidate clearly won Congo election - Catholic church Democratic Republic of Congo's Catholic church said on Thursday it was clear which candidate won the country's presidential election, and demanded that the electoral commission publish accurate results. DR Congo awaits results after volatile presidential election In Goma’s polling centres, results give DR Congo opposition candidate, Martin Fayulu, a large lead in the presidential election with more than 60% of the votes with a turnout around 50%. After a relatively bloodless vote, election officials embark... DRC election: mock vote in Beni with makeshift polling stations In Beni, a makeshift vote takes place in response to the postponement of the general elections that are occurring elsewhere in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Youth organisation and members of the population set up makeshift polling stations, wi... Congo top court declares winner in election Congo’s constitutional court has confirmed Felix Tshisekedi’s presidential election win, dismissing a challenge from another opposition leader who has rejected the court’s decision and declared himself president. DR Congo's large youth population prepares to go to the polls According to population estimates, two-thirds of the roughly 80 million Congolese citizens are under 25 years of age. This Sunday's election will be the first time that the 18-25 age group has the chance to vote, as there have been no general elec... WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. Ebola-hit Congolese town protests with mock vote Residents of an Ebola hotspot in eastern Congo stage a mock presidential election to show the authorities a decision to postpone the vote there due to health fears was unfounded. Vote counting underway in Goma after DR Congo elections Vote counting is underway in the eastern city of Goma. After two years of delays, crackdowns and political turmoil, the Democratic Republic of Congo voted in presidential elections that will determine the future of Africa's notoriously unstable gi... Opposition candidate Felix Tshisekedi votes in DR Congo election Felix Tshisekedi, one of the frontrunner opposition candidates, casts his vote in Kinshasa, DR Congo, in presidential elections that will shape the future of one of Africa's biggest and most unstable countries. Election results leave Congo with uncertainty Democratic Republic of Congo's electoral commission declare opposition leader Felix Tsisekedi winner of a contentious presidential election. However vote tallies from Congo's Catholic church point to a different winner, raising the specter of a stand AP explains: unresolved races in Fla, Georgia AP's Washington Bureau chief Julie Pace explains why outstanding races in Florida and Georgia have become so significant, that even President Donald Trump has taken to twitter about one of them. How to steal an election: Gerrymandering explained Votes may not matter if they're not counted fairly. With new strict voter ID laws popping up, minorities and the poor are finding it even harder to cast their ballots in the US. Challenging a French no-go area to vote A group of first-time voters on a deprived Marseille housing estate are trying to boost turnout at the presidential election this month. DR Congo election: polling stations open in Kinshasa Congolese citizens arrive to cast their vote as polling stations open in Kinshasa. Millions of electors are expected to turn out to choose a successor to President Joseph Kabila. The election's credibility has already been strained by repeated del... DR Congo election officially postponed by 1 week: CENI Long-delayed elections due to be held in DR Congo on Sunday will be postponed by a week after voting machines were destroyed in a warehouse fire. Corneille Nangaa, president of the Independent National Election Commission (CENI), officically annou... Judge denies Scott bid to impound voting machines Urging all sides to "ramp down the rhetoric," a Florida judge on Monday denied a request by Gov. Rick Scott's Senate campaign to impound voting machines, saying he's seen no evidence of wrongdoing in the vote counting in Broward County. Fire destroys thousands of voting machines ahead of key Congo vote Thousands of voting machines and ballot boxes have been destroyed in a fire at a warehouse in Kinshasa ahead of the Dec. 23 presidential election. Maduro wins re-election amid outcry over vote Venezuela's President Nicolas Maduro comfortably won re-election in a controversial vote on Sunday, the election board said, though his main rivals both declared the poll illegitimate due to alleged widespread irregularities. Turkey's Erdogan claims victory in presidential election Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan claimed victory in Sunday's presidential election and said his ruling AK Party and its alliance partner had won a parliamentary majority. Reuters' Emily Wither reports from Istanbul. Congo's opposition leader wins chaotic presidential election Democratic Republic of Congo's electoral commission declared opposition leader Felix Tshisekedi the surprise winner of the presidential election with 38.57 percent of votes. Suicide bomber kills dozens as Pakistanis vote At least 29 people are dead in a bombing near a polling center in Pakistan, where voting is underway in a general election.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.