Pelane Phakgadi Duduzane Zuma (File, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Duduzane Zuma appeared briefly in the Randburg Magistrate's Court and BLF leader Andile Mngxitama addressed party members who showed up in support of Zuma. Watch.WATCH The culpable homicide case against Duduzane Zuma was postponed to March 26 in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday. Zuma faces two charges of culpable homicide and a count of negligent driving relating to a car crash on February 1, 2014, on the M1 highway in Gauteng. On the day, he was driving his Porsche when it rear-ended a minibus taxi, resulting in the death of Zimbabwean national, Phumzile Dube. Another passenger, Nanki Jeanette Mashaba, who was injured in the accident, died in hospital several weeks later. The National Prosecuting Authority had previously declined to prosecute Zuma, but changed its mind after lobby group AfriForum asked to privately prosecute him. Wearing a grey suit, sky-blue shirt and navy tie, Zuma indicated that he understood the ruling, and would make himself available. Former president Jacob Zuma was in court to support his son. The media have been ordered to apply to cover the proceedings, and that application will be heard on March 14. More to follow. WATCH: Jacob Zuma arrives at court to support son Duduzane Former president Jacob Zuma arrived at the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday show support for his son Duduzane, who has been charged with two counts of culpable homicide. WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma. South Africa's ex-president just signed a record deal Former president Jacob Zuma, who is implicated in a major corruption scandal, has been given a taxpayer-funded record deal. Zuma on land: Less debate, more nationalisation Former President Jacob Zuma said there is too much debate about land expropriation without compensation to his liking, and suggested that land should be nationalised. WATCH: 'It's me, former president Jacob Zuma' - Zuma joins social media Former president Jacob Zuma says he has decided to "move with times" and join various social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. PARODY: Jacob Zuma sings Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word The closest SA may get to an apology from Jacob Zuma, is this parody of the president singing Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word. S.Africa: J. Zuma arrives at his hearing over corruption charges Former South African President Jacob Zuma arrives at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of fraud, racketeering and money laundering. 1ST Journalists, supporters and family arrive for J. Zuma's hearing Journalists along with supporters and relatives of former South African President Jacob Zuma arrive at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of registry ... WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan continues testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day2 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan faced intimidation and victimisation for refusing to be party to state capture, the judicial inquiry into state capture headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo heard on Monday. WATCH: Nugent commission deviated from original mandate says Moyane's lawyer Former president Jacob Zuma has entered the fray over the firing of South African Revenue Service (SARS) commissioner Tom Moyane, saying Judge Robert Nugent was not asked to deal with the individual contracts of employees at SARS. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan continues testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day2 / Part1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan faced intimidation and victimisation for refusing to be party to state capture, the judicial inquiry into state capture headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo heard on Monday. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part 3) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part 2) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part1) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. Power outage risk rising - South African utility Eskom South Africa's power company Eskom says the risk of nationwide electricity outages has increased significantly due to a sharp fall in coal stockpiles. WATCH: 'Pay back the money' - MP's jeer at EFF's Floyd Shivambu in ironic turn of events EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu found himself on the receiving end of MP's jeering in Parliament on Tuesday, when he was heckled to "pay back the money" during a debate on the VBS Mutual Bank scandal. S Africa's Ramaphosa confirms resignation of finance minister Nene South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa has accepted the resignation of Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene, who has faced calls to resign after he admitted to visiting the Gupta brothers, friends of scandal-plagued former leader Jacob Zuma who have b... 'We don't want any corruption' South Africans share their feelings about Zuma's presidency and what they hope for the future. South Africa's Zuma says he will resign 'with immediate effect' South Africa's President Jacob Zuma has said he will resign "with immediate effect".

Mr Zuma made the announcement late on Wednesday in a televised address to the nation. S Africa 'captured by corrupt elements' South Africa's President Zuma feels "anxious" about his future, says ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. The Zuma presidency: Scandals and successes Jacob Zuma has faced some controversies during his time as ANC leader. 'I never thought we would choose corruption' Makhosi Khoza received death threats after branding President Jacob Zuma "a disgrace".   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.