Kaveel Singh Mnikelwa Nxele. (Thuli Dlamini, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Suspended KwaZulu-Natal prisons head Mnikelwa Nxele has
spoken out after accusations of bribery were levelled against him at the Zondo
commission of inquiry into state capture last week. He was accused of taking over R50 000 a month in
bribes from facilities management company, Bosasa. The allegations were made by former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi, coincidentally around the same time Nxele was suspended for an unrelated labour dispute. OVERVIEW: 'I am still fearful of Gavin Watson' - Van Tonder testifies at #StateCaptureInquiry On Tuesday, Nxele took the Department of Correctional Services (DCS) to the Labour Court in Durban to dispute his suspension. Speaking to the media after the proceedings, he said he was suspended after disciplinary processes involving a manager emerged. "It involves a manager who had been dismissed in 2014 and reinstated by the bargaining council in 2017 and resumed work in November 2018." Unfortunate READ: Agrizzi testimony like a vuvuzela keeping people up at night - Mbalula Nxele said "certain processes" that we had undertaken inside the department that led up to the manager's suspension were being "looked at" to establish any discrepancies. "At this stage, that [discrepancies] has not been established. For the sake of the investigation, they feel that I should not be at work. I came to court because facts are on the table on the matter. There is no basis for me to be placed on suspension." He said it was unfortunate that his suspension was unfairly linked to Bosasa. When asked about the Bosasa claims by Agrizzi, he said he was disappointed that the commission did not speak to him. "I was uncomfortable without me being informed. They never told me I was in his testimony. I wrote to the commission after that. " "My understanding is that the commission ought to have alerted me to this so I could be in a position to prepare for my participation and response to the allegation." Nxele said he and the commission have been in discussions since. When asked if he took any bribes from Bosasa, he said: "I don't want to discuss matters of the commission outside the commission. That will be undermining processes." Nxele is one of the latest high-ranking officials to be implicated in state capture. Last week he was accused of taking bribes of around R57 500 per month. He was alleged to have influenced a plot to put undue pressure on former DCS national commissioner Vernie Petersen in 2007. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  LISTEN: 'That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. LISTEN: Bosasa bosses Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma [WITH SUBTITLES] In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. WATCH: 'Give me a tender' - sings satirical 'Elvis' on Bosasa scandal The much-talked about Bosasa scandal has gripped South Africa over the past week since former chief-operating officer Angelo Agrizzi blew the whistle on bribery and corruption. LISTEN: Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. WATCH: Agrizzi details unfair advantage given to Bosasa to secure 'one of the biggest' tenders Former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi is on the stand for the fifth day at the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry - Agrizzi to implicate more officials Former Bosasa chief operating officer Angelo Agrizzi will be back on the witness stand for a fifth day and more officials are expected to be implicated in his testimony. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry: Agrizzi continues his testimony, who will be implicated? Angelo Agrizzi has revealed more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Agrizzi claims he packed R50 000 a month for Minister Mokonyane Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi told the Zondo Commission that the company catered for ANC rallies and paid for the ruling party's birthday cake. Agrizzi was testifying about the relationship between Bosasa and Cabinet minister Nomvula Mokonyana WATCH: Agrizzi, Watson paid regular visits to Mokonyane's house, along with R50 000 #StateCaptureInquiry | Angelo Agrizzi continues to reveal more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Bosasa and #StateCapture | Here's what you need to know... Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson emerges as 'kingpin of bribes' Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson has emerged as the absolute kingpin in the Bosasa empire of bribes, intimidation and cold hard cash. WATCH: Former Bossasa COO unpacks the bribes Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi on Thursday detailed the money trail allegedly used for bribing state entities. WATCH | 'Every single contract was tainted with bribes' - Agrizzi testifies #StateCaptureInquiry The second day of testimony by former Bosasa top boss Angelo Agrizzi in the commission of inquiry into state capture continues. ANALYSIS | #StateCaptureInquiry: Unpacking Agrizzi's testimony Watch as News24 investigative journalist Kyle Cowen and journalist Jeanette Chabalala unpack former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi's revelations at the state capture commission. WATCH: Bosasa spent between 'R4m and R6m a month' in cash bribes - Agrizzi at #StateCaptureInquiry Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi continues to testify at state capture inquiry - Day 2 The second day of testimony by former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi at the commission of inquiry into state capture is set to be far more explosive and damning for the ruling ANC party and his former colleagues. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi testifies at state capture inquiry The Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture resumed on Wednesday with former Bosasa employee Angelo Agrizzi on the witness stand. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.