Jenni Evans A flooded street in Polokwane. (Supplied via Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Heavy rain in Polokwane had water flooding some streets and one of the local malls busy with mopping up operations on Saturday. "The incredible downpour that Polokwane has just experienced has flooded large parts of the city including Savannah Mall," the mall's Facebook page announced. The banking hall and surrounding areas were flooded by storm water and clean up crews set about mopping the water up, said the mall in an apology for any inconvenience. In the meantime the municipality was busy with removing fallen trees and rubble that had been pushed into roads by the waters, as well as some electricity problems. Haibo?????? is raining in Polokwane?! Also ?????? that guy withdrawing at Capetic is my hero! I aspire to be that unbothered in life ?????? https://t.co/xHNfyT0JZm  POLOKWANE HEAVY RAIN - The city of Polokwane had been stormed following the heavy rain this afternoon, and Savannah mall is damaged. Members of the community have been warned to be extra cautious in case they visit the area as more floods are still expected. pic.twitter.com/RizcbDfOHh Storm met baie #reën in #Polokwane ??? Natasha van der Westhuizen @SAWeatherServic @sawx_sa_weather @venter_annette @debeer_anika @SABCNewsOnline @Netwerk24 @PolokwaneObserv @maroelamedia pic.twitter.com/Wb2NPAcg4l  The village in Nepal cut off by floods Aid agencies are warning of a humanitarian crisis following recent flooding. New Brunswick in cleanup and recovery mode as floods recede Officials say a stretch of Trans-Canada Highway in New Brunswick closed due to flooding could reopen Friday, as the waters recede. In Fredericton the Red Cross offered cleanup kits for those affected by the flooding. Winds and snow pound US East Coast Thousands of flights were cancelled as coastal communities braced for more flooding. Severe flooding strikes Balitmore suburb Heavy rain and severe flooding makes streets in Ellicott City, Maryland look like a river. Two rescued after flooding in Hackney Two people have had to be rescued following flooding in an underground car park. Emergency services were called shortly before nine o'clock this morning to reports of flooding in the Lea Bridge Road area of Hackney. Man abandons sinking truck amid US storms At least 13 people have died as flooding and tornadoes sweep parts of the south and midwest. The city where roads turned to rivers The waters have receded after flash flooding in Maryland, revealing the trail of damage left behind. 'It came through the back door' A major storm hit coastal Massachusetts during high tide, causing icy flooding across the region. Paris keeps eye on submerged statue Homes and businesses in Paris brace for flooding as the Seine threatens to overflow its banks. 'There were dozens of cars in the ocean' Several people are killed during flash flooding on the Spanish island following torrential rain.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.