Tammy Petersen VIDEO: New footage shows devastation after Cape Town N1 high speed crash New footage of the crashed BMW on the N1 in Cape Town has emerged on social media, this time showing the aftermath of the incident. Taufiq Carr, 26, crashed his BMW on the N1 in a high-speed accident. (Image via Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories No police report has been filed following the horrific crash on the N1 highway in Cape Town on Monday in which the speeding driver suffered severe injuries that resulted in his legs being amputated. Western Cape police confirmed to News24 that no docket had been opened for investigation following the accident that occurred after Taufiq Carr lost control of his BMW M3 and crashed near the Sable Road turnoff near Century City in an apparent "street race". In footage of the incident, the luxury car can be seen changing lanes at high speed, before ramming into the centre median. According to the police, City of Cape Town authorities had responded to the scene and not the South African Police Service (SAPS). This meant that a docket could only be opened once the incident report was submitted by the responding authority. WATCH: High speed N1 Cape Town crash leaves BMW driver critical Video of a BMW crashing into a barrier on the N1 in Cape Town and spinning out of control has gone viral online. By Friday, it had not been received. A photo of the accident scene seen by News24 shows a uniformed metro police officer next to the smashed up car. Executive director for safety and security Richard Bosman said the City was "currently looking into the matter" and would liaise with police to "ensure that all the necessary information is in place to proceed with the investigation". Critical head injuries Following the incident, mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith said the City's traffic services were unable to prosecute motorists on the strength of third-party evidence such as the video footage. The SAPS, however, would still be able to pursue a case, Smith said, adding that the City hopes that they will. According to Smith, the National Prosecuting Authority informed council that it is not legally able to open cases or issue notices based on statements from members of the public; only the police may investigate such cases when a complaint is submitted. READ: BMW speedster's legs amputated after horror N1 crash, says mom Carr, a 26-year-old businessman from Mitchells Plain, had both his legs amputated after being transported to Vincent Palotti Hospital in the early hours of Monday morning. According to paramedics, he had also sustained critical injuries to his head and was provided with "several advanced life support interventions". Photos of his car, which came to a standstill in the emergency lane, showed extensive damage to the body of the luxury vehicle. Carr's mother, Moesna Carr, told News24 she was relieved that no one else had been injured. His family was grateful that the married father of two was alive, she said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: 'Give me a tender' - sings satirical 'Elvis' on Bosasa scandal The much-talked about Bosasa scandal has gripped South Africa over the past week since former chief-operating officer Angelo Agrizzi blew the whistle on bribery and corruption. 8 Incredible hikes in SA that will clear the mind South Africa is blessed with some of the best hiking trails in the world, but here's just a few to get you started on planning your next trek through nature. WATCH: Thieves ambush and rob sleeping truck driver A video of a truck driver valiantly fighting off a suspected robber who broke into his truck while he was sleeping inside has surfaced on social media. LISTEN: Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.