Tshidi Madia in New Delhi, India Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories South African President Cyril Ramaphosa will be hosted by India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi on his first official state visit to the country on Friday. According to a media statement from the Presidency, Ramaphosa, who will be joined by a delegation of ministers including Jeff Radebe, Angie Motshekga, Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams and Pravin Gordhan, will be in India to strengthen the strategic partnership South Africa has long enjoyed with India. The two countries are expected to discuss an array of issues but will focus specifically on higher education and training, arts and culture, home affairs as well as defence and energy. Ramaphosa and his host, Modi, both of whom face tough elections in a few months, will also have to navigate difficult conversations around trade and defence. The two leaders have also launched mass campaigns to turn around their respective country's misfortunes, with Modi's 2014 "Make in India" initiative aimed at turning India into a global manufacturing hub and Ramaphosa's ambitious stimulus plan intended to pump investments into South Africa and create jobs to turn around an ailing economy. Ramaphosa also jets into India following a successful showing at the World Economic Forum in Davos, where he was said to have "wowed" potential investors. President @CyrilRamaphosa and spouse Dr Tshepo Motsepe arrive at the ABSA Cafe & are received by CEO of the ABSA Group, Ms Maria Ramos to attend the South African Investment Seminar taking place on margins on the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. #SAinDavos2019 #WEF19 pic.twitter.com/hPwxTAJfS7 India wants to increase trade with African countries and might be looking for a free trade agreement with South Africa that would resemble the inter-continental agreement already agreed upon last year. India to work with Denel again It's expected that a partnership with South Africa's embattled weapons manufacturer Denel will also be made during the two-day visit. This week, India's secretary of economic relations in the Ministry of External Affairs, TS Tirumurti, told journalists at a media briefing that the country's issues with Denel had been settled in 2018. Denel was blacklisted following allegations of corruption. Ramaphosa will also be India's chief guest as it marks Republic Day in celebration of that country's constitution. He is the second South African president to have been bestowed this honour by India, the first being late president Nelson Mandela. Ramaphosa will also lay a wreath at Mahatma Gandhi's grave and deliver a lecture in the Indian activist's honour at a business forum before participating in the Republic Day parade on Saturday. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. WATCH: IEC hails new law to ensure transparency in political party funding President Cyril Ramaphosa signed the Political Party Funding bill into law on Tuesday. ANC launches election manifesto South Africa's ruling ANC party launches its election campaign on Saturday ahead of polls in May that it is tipped to win despite recently falling support, internal divisions and a sluggish economy. On Friday, party members including President Cyr... SAfrica's Ramaphosa gives speech at ANC manifesto launch 1ST IMAGES of South Africa's Cyril Ramaphosa's speech at the launch of his party's 2019 election manifesto. The African National Congress (ANC), which has ruled since the end of apartheid 25 years ago, is tipped to win the election in May despite ... WATCH: Ramaphosa tees off ahead of ANC's manifesto launch President Cyril Ramaphosa enjoyed a day of golf on Friday morning ahead of  the ANC's birthday celebrations and manifesto launch on Saturday. Ramaphosa played alongside paired players at the Mount Edgecombe Country Club Estate in Durban. WATCH: Political parties say they are ready for the coming elections Political parties say that they are ready for the coming elections. Speaking to News24 at the IEC elections launch at the Gallagher Convention Centre, the leaders also urged those eligible to vote to go register on January 26 and 27. WATCH: Ramaphosa calls on private sector to assist with the fight against corruption Corruption has become a big issue that has to be addressed by the whole nation, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Thursday. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma. South Africa's ex-president just signed a record deal Former president Jacob Zuma, who is implicated in a major corruption scandal, has been given a taxpayer-funded record deal.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.