Duncan Alfreds WATCH:  Fire rages out of control near Hermanus Firefighters from the Overstrand Municipality have spent the last 24 hours fighting an out of control fire about 10km from Hermanus in the Western Cape. Firefighter officials monitor the blaze in Overstrand. (Greater Overberg Fire Protection Association Command) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Overstrand Municipality has warned of more serious fines for people who start fires illegally in the wake of a devastating blaze in the area. The fire, which started on New Year's Eve, devastated areas near Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els over the past two weeks. "We received a lot of assistance from the Overberg District Municipality and other volunteers and farm owners," acting mayor Elnora Gillion told News24. Stronger penalties She said that officials were still cautious because there was still strong wind in the area. "It was only yesterday and this morning that we could declare the fire has been 100% contained. We did not open the R44 road as yet because helicopters are still on standby and we still have very strong winds. "There can be flare-up afterwards as well," Gillion added. She warned that the municipality would investigate stronger penalties for illegal fires and fireworks. "As a council, we will look into higher fines and stronger fines for fireworks. People must be held accountable." News24 reported that Shelton April, 34, appeared in the Caledon Magistrate's Court on Monday, where the case was postponed for a week, a court official confirmed. He is accused of causing the devastating blaze after a flare was lit.  Firefighters relax after battling a massive blaze. (PHOTO: Greater Overberg Fire Protection Association Command) Fireworks are banned in Overstrand. Gillion urged the community to work with the municipality to keep fires to a minimum. But these efforts have had limited success. "You need the community to assist you and at the start of the fire season, we do education and awareness campaigns. It never works out even though we banned fireworks in Overstrand," said Gillion.  Firefighters relax after battling a massive blaze. (PHOTO: Greater Overberg Fire Protection Association Command)  Protest But even as officials assess their success for the huge fire, a protest in Gansbaai has caused concern. "We have quite a huge challenge because in Gansbaai there is a protest and someone set a field on fire, and stretches our resources," Gillion said. Gillion said businesses in the area were encouraged to provide relief for firefighters, some of whom worked 24-hour shifts on the fire line. "As councillors, we will talk to the community and ask who will assist and we will have massages for the firefighters. "Their muscles will be aching and their eyes and ears will be in pain – we buy Eye Gene and ear drops."   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Caterpillar hikes profit forecast Caterpillar raised its full-year profit forecast on Monday after reporting quarterly earnings that nearly doubled. As Fred Katayama reports, it's largely offsetting the impact of U.S. tariffs by hiking prices and managing costs. Hundreds tackle Australia bushfire Hundreds of firefighters tackle the blaze as residents are displaced. China’s first 3D-printed bridge ready for crossing in Shanghai A 15m-long bridge (49ft) made completely by a 3D-printer was unveiled in a park in the area of Taopu in Shanghai. According to the developers, the Shanghai Construction Group, it took just 35 days to build but the bridge will last for another 30 y... Startup Battlefield Mena 2018: MakerBrane MakerBrane is a digital and physical platform that lets anyone design, build, or trade their own playworlds. Mixing online design tools with a cross-brand, real-world construction system, it is hackable like Minecraft, physical like LEGO, and open... Migrant caravan: Hundreds rush border, tear gas fired Hundreds of migrants attempt to breach the US-Mexico border fence, but are stopped by US border officers who begin firing tear gas. Firefighters tackle blaze at Trump Tower The New York Fire Department is attending the scene of a fire at Trump Tower in Manhattan.

A blaze was reported on the top floor of the building at 7am local time. Celebrity Closeup: Chris Evans Born in Boston, Massachusetts, Chris Evans has acting in his blood. His mother is a former dancer who now runs a youth theater, and Chris was a creative kid right from the start. Project to re-connect North and South Korea A ceremony has been held to signal the start of a project to re-connect inter-Korean railways and roads, almost 70 years after they were severed. Galapagos' Sierra Negra spews lava, ash The Sierra Negra volcano in Ecuador expels rivers of burning lava that flow through areas of the Galapagos National Park amid clouds of smoke and ash. Pandora fires CEO as new jewellery fails to charm Pandora's chief executive, Anders Colding Friis, is stepping down, the firm said on Thursday, just days after warning of lower sales and profit margins this year. As Francis Maguire reports, shares in the Danish jewellery maker, known for its silv... Mexico City's first elected female mayor takes oath of office Claudia Sheinbaum takes the oath of office in Mexico as the first woman to be elected mayor of Mexico City. 'Yellow vest' protesters forge close ties ahead of Christmas A month after the start of the 'yellow vest' movement, protesters continue to voice their anger at sites across France and say they have found themselves a 'new family' in their fellow protesters. Klopp ‘would have paid’ for four point lead over City Jurgen Klopp insisted he would have paid money for Liverpool's league position at the start of the season after his side were beaten 2-1 by title rivals Manchester City on Thursday. Third firefighter killed responding to CA wildfire A mechanic helping to fight the Carr Fire in California died in a traffic collision on Thursday becoming the third firefighter to die from that blaze. LA fires force thousands to evacuate The flames spread to over 70 sq miles and firefighters have been unable to bring them under control. Fans flock to Comic-Con in outstanding outfits Thousands of fans descended on San Diego for the start of Comic-Con. Despite the show - which is held at the San Diego Convention Centre - not officially kicking off until Thursday, fans turned up in their thousands for Wednesday's preview day. Town destroyed, thousands flee Calif. wildfires Three fast-moving wildfires continued to rage across parts of California on Friday, destroying homes and forcing thousands to flee. Colette Luke has more. LA moves to ban fur products Los Angeles, the city of fashion and glamour, clears the way towards becoming the largest U.S. metropolis to outlaw the sale of fur products. Topless protester charges at Bill Cosby as retrial begins A topless protester with Women's Lives Matter written on her body jumped a barricade and got within a few feet of Bill Cosby as the comedian walked into a courthouse for the start of his sexual assault retrial. Couple build wheelchairs for disabled animals A professional couple with a menagerie of rescued disabled pets have taken their love for unwanted animals one step further, by building special wheelchairs for them. Raptors' president says firing coach Casey was 'very difficult' Toronto Raptors president Masai Ujiri is calling Dwane Casey an "unbelievable human being," but says it is time for a change. Casey was fired as coach after the team was eliminated from the playoffs by the Cleveland Cavaliers. Primary school damaged by major fire on eve of new term Firefighters are tackling a blaze at Roding Primary School on Hewett Road, Dagenham, London Fire Brigade said. Dusk falls on fiery Champs Elysées after day of protests After a day of clashes between protesters and police on the Champs-Elysees in Paris, debris, fires and smoke blanket the famed avenue as fire fighters work to put fires out and repair the damage. Three Major Wildfires Force Thousands to Flee in California Three Major Wildfires Force Thousandsto Flee in California Two of the fires are miles from a bar in Thousand Oaks where 12 people were killed in a mass shooting. Voluntary evacuations of around 75,000 homes in Ventura County have been called for b... Massive wildfire becomes largest in California history Two California wildfires have merged, creating the largest blaze in the state's history. Firefighters have only contained a small part of the Mendocino Complex fire in the northern part of the state, and hot weather is setting the stage for the fi... WATCH: Western Cape firefighters end gruelling day with uplifting song A group of firefighters returned to their base at the Crassula hall in Betty's Bay on Friday, with song and dance. Wind gusts hamper battles against California wildfire A wildfire in Northern California continued to burn on Wednesday and the National Weather Service is warning that wind gusts of up to 25 miles per hour could hamper firefighters efforts to contain it. Jane Lanhee Lee reports. Rita Ora felt insecure at the start of her career British pop star Rita Ora has admitted she had "an insecure moment" at the start of her music career. Man holds out in family home through years of war in Syria Abu Nimr has been holding out in his family home with his dog in Syria's Yarmouk district since the start of the war. During that time, his hometown has switched hands between the rebels, Daesh and the regime. This is his story. #Yarmouk #Syria #war Kelly Clarkson contemplated suicide over weight Kelly Clarkson has admitted she contemplated suicide after being forced to lose weight at the start of her career. Firefighter overcome with emotion as Grenfell Inquiry shown footage of blaze One of the first firefighters to enter Grenfell Tower on the night it burned broke down in tears as footage of his arrival at the flat of origin was played to an inquiry. Mayor: Toronto still 'one of the safest cities' in the world After a string of shootings in Toronto, Mayor John Tory says efforts are being made to get "gangsters" off the street. Tory says the city is still "generally safe."     .  . Protesters demand mayor's resignation over building collapses Ten days after two dilapidated buildings collapsed in Marseille, killing at least eight people, hundreds of protesters march from the disaster site to the city's town hall. Building fire safety tests 'flawed' The standard UK fire safety test of building materials fails to properly assess risk, new research suggests. Toronto mayor denounces Doug Ford's plan to slash council seats Toronto mayor John Tory is criticizing a proposed plan from Doug Ford to reduce the number of city councillors from 47 to 25. Tory says the Ontario premier should not be interfering ahead of October's municipal election. Blogger Steve Hanisch explores Alicante The Spanish port city of Alicante is famous for its historic old town district. Travel blogger Steve Hanisch visits the 13th century Castillo de Santa Barbara, a fortress that boasts spectacular views. Toronto representatives challenge Ford's council downsizing The Ontario government threw a wrench into Toronto municipal politics on Friday by announcing a huge reduction to the size of the city's council. Toronto's mayor and city councillors react to Premier Doug Ford's proposed change. WATCH: Outpouring of support in Pretoria after 300 people left homeless following shack fires On Saturday afternoon, 62 shacks burnt down in Plastic View informal settlement adjacent to the NG Gemeente in Moreletapark, Pretoria. WATCH: From the cockpit - Pilot's view of the Garden Route fires Firefighting efforts intensified on the Garden Route in the Southern Cape this past weekend, as fires raged, leaving destruction in their wake. Fire tornado sucks firefighters' hose into the sky A fire tornado sucks the British Columbia Wildfire Service's hose into the sky in Canada. It threw burning logs across the guard for nearly an hour and pulled the hose over 100 feet in the air before melting it. A helicopter view of Ontario forest fire damage Smoke and scorched trees can be seen from a helicopter near Britt, Ontario, where the forest fire known as Parry Sound 33 is burning. A fire behaviour analyst says the fire is not currently expanding. Mexican firefighters help battle Shovel Lake wildfire in B.C. A crew of Mexican firefighters helped deal with smouldering hotspots in areas burned by the Shovel Lake wildfire, near Endako, B.C., on Thursday. The blaze is the largest of nearly 600 wildfires burning in the province. Arson investigation after boy, seven, dies in house fire A seven-year-old boy has died in a suspected arson attack after a house fire in south-east London. It's time to involve the entire security cluster - Blade Nzimande after latest Cape Town train fire Firefighters have arrived at Cape Town train station to battle yet another train-related blaze after thick, black smoke permeated the air above the station on Tuesday. WATCH: Overstrand fire rages on Air support has been brought in to battle a large fire in the Overstrand area in the Western Cape. The fire has devastated areas close to Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els. Slovakian firefighters take part in fire drill in UK Six fire safety members of the Slovakian Air Force have come to the UK as members of Nato to take part in fire safety training - specifically in how to extinguish major aircraft fires. Zinke: California fire 'worst' he's ever seen Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke joined California Gov. Jerry Brown on a visit to Paradise on Wednesday, saying it was the worst fire devastation he had ever seen.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.