Canny Maphanga Former SABC chief operations officer (COO) Hlaudi Motsoeneng said facilities company Bosasa paid about R1m towards his legal fees. "I received more than R1m. It is not a secret. It is not new," Motsoeneng told 702's Eusebius McKaiser on Wednesday. EWN reported that this came after former executive of the controversial company, Angelo Agrizzi, revealed this information in his statement to the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. Motsoeneng turned to corruption-accused company Bosasa when he needed cash to pay his lawyers after he was axed from the public broadcaster in 2017. SATIRE: "This wonderful person called Hlaudi" | Hlaudi Motsoeneng rap remix "I want to applaud people who recognise this wonderful person called Hlaudi. Because when I came here there was no SABC" - Hlaudi Motsoeneng, 2016 ALSO: Hlaudi Motsoeneng dismissed He was charged with bringing the SABC into disrepute and causing irreparable harm to it following comments at a press briefing in April. The former COO of the public broadcaster further claimed Bosasa received nothing in return for the money towards his legal fees. ALSO READ: Hlaudi Motsoeneng’s R1.1m Bosasa bailout "They can't get anything from me. They have never received anything from me. From me – none. No benefit for Bosasa," he added. Numerous attempts to reach Motsoeneng went unanswered.  WATCH: Agrizzi claims he packed R50 000 a month for Minister Mokonyane Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi told the Zondo Commission that the company catered for ANC rallies and paid for the ruling party's birthday cake. Agrizzi was testifying about the relationship between Bosasa and Cabinet minister Nomvula Mokonyana WATCH: Bosasa and #StateCapture | Here's what you need to know... Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson emerges as 'kingpin of bribes' Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson has emerged as the absolute kingpin in the Bosasa empire of bribes, intimidation and cold hard cash. WATCH: Former Bossasa COO unpacks the bribes Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi on Thursday detailed the money trail allegedly used for bribing state entities. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. WATCH: Video of Durban businessman chastising white beggar goes viral A video of a Durban businessman refusing to give a white beggar R2 because "my forefathers will kill me", has gone viral on social media.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.