Riaan Grobler, Correspondent WATCH: 'ANC is killing us' - DA unveils billboard listing names of Marikana, Life Esidimeni victims DA leaders and supporters marched on Wednesday to unveil a new giant billboard in Johannesburg. The DA billboard being damaged on Wednesday.  (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The ANC has laid an official complaint with the Independent Electoral Commission of South Africa (IEC) regarding the DA's controversial election billboard in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, EWN reported on Friday. The DA on Wednesday unveiled a campaign billboard listing the names of the victims of the Marikana massacre and the Life Esidimeni tragedy as well as those of children who have died in pit toilets around the country. The party claimed that the ANC was the cause of these deaths and also blamed the party for crime-related deaths in South Africa, News24 reported. "The ANC is concerned that the conduct of the DA flies in the face of the electoral code of conduct as it is nothing short of spreading deliberate lies about the ANC. The ANC will take up the matter in the appropriate forums provided for in the country's electoral laws," acting ANC spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said in a statement on Wednesday. On Thursday, relatives of the Life Esidimeni victims claimed responsibility for damaging and tearing down the DA's billboard. WATCH: Damage to 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard a criminal act – DA The DA has called the damage inflicted on its newly unveiled 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, a 'criminal act'. "We are still mourning for them, we will never speak to them again, and now their names are out there," a relative who did not want to be named told News24. "What's done is done." The man said none of the family members were consulted by the DA prior to having the billboard erected. "This is what angers us," he said. READ: WATCH: Angry Life Esidimeni victims' relatives tear down DA billboard The IEC's chief electoral officer Sy Mamabolo told EWN that the matter of the billboard was before its national party liaison committee after the ANC laid a complaint. "We gave the national party liaison committee an opportunity to go and reflect on the matter. In particular, the likely impact of this type of campaigning on the climate in which the election is going to be happening," Mamabolo told EWN. He reportedly said that, while the IEC encouraged robust electioneering, parties should keep their campaigns clean. "But obviously, the families are aggrieved about it." "It's quite clear that this is a criminal act," DA spokesperson Solly Malatsi told News24 on Thursday, referring to the vandalism of the billboard. "We will be engaging with the relevant authorities for the law to take its course," Malatsi said. Reacting to the ANC's complaint at the IEC, Malatsi said the governing party could "bring it on". "We will engage [the ANC] robustly at the electoral court if needs be," Malatsi told News24. A family member of someone who died through #LifeEsidimeni are seen removing names from the @Our_DA billboard of #ANCIsKillingUs which was unveiled by DA Leader @MmusiMaimane yesterday. pic.twitter.com/RzKhhJKJyt    WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: DA leader Mmusi Maimane talks Solly Msimanga's future in the DA Although DA leader Mmusi Maimane refuses to commit to a number, when it comes to the party's ambitions ahead of the general elections next year, he makes it clear he has his eyes set on Gauteng. Patricia de Lille on her lowest time in her politics career The past 18 months have seen battle royal in the DA in Cape Town, which reached a turning point on Wednesday when Patricia de Lille resigned as mayor and DA member amid a criminal investigation against her. WATCH: De Lille takes aim at 'rudderless' DA as she announces resignation On Wednesday 31 October, Cape Town Mayor announced her resignation.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.