Jenni Evans A house that was destroyed in the Mossel Bay fire (Garden Route SPCA, Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A firefighter has been injured and two houses destroyed in a blaze in Mossel Bay's Hartenbos Heuwels, Mossel Bay municipal spokesperson Rowena Hendricks said on Monday. "A veld fire is currently raging out of control in the Hartenbos Heuwels area of Mossel Bay," said Hendricks. "Two houses have been destroyed while one firefighter has been injured." Hendricks said there had been no evacuations by mid-afternoon, but instructions would be given if necessary. WATCH: Fire rescue Bambi trotting on the road to recovery At just a few months old, a rescued baby Cape Grysbok has touched the hearts of the many residents of the Cape overstrand area, which has recently been underthreat by a devastating fire for two weeks. As a precautionary measure pupils from Sonskynvallei, near where the fire is raging, were moved and are being accommodated at the Hartenbos Primary School's aftercare facility. The R328 between Mossel Bay and Oudtshoorn was closed to traffic. 15h22 Councillor Niklaas Booisen#MosselBayFire -Mossel Bay Municipality has confirmed that the fire raging in the Hartenbos Heuwels area is out of control.Areas of greatest concern now are Menkenkop and Seemeeupark and the area behind Sonskynvallei up to the Welbedagt Road Firefighters from Mossel Bay were working against strong winds to bring the fire under control. They are being helped by the George and Garden Route district municipalities as well as aerial support and assistance from Working on Fire and Mossel Bay Helicopters. "Our heartfelt thanks to all involved," said Hendricks. In the meantime, the local Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) said the wind was dying down and the organisation was looking for injured animals. "Well done and thank you firefighters and WOF. Thank you to everyone for your messages of support," the animal welfare association posted on Facebook. WATCH: Firefighters leave Overstrand with song and dance The firefighters who tirelessly battled to bring a raging fire in the Overstrand area under control have held a parade to thank the community for their support. 'The fire was higher than the roof here'- Hermanus farmer "Camphill, you've got 30 minutes until that fire is on you." These were the chilling words that came through as a Hermanus farm community, housing 54 intellectually disabled patients, was forced to evacuate. WATCH: Betty's Bay fire victim shares heartbreaking experience of the blaze A Betty's Bay resident has spoken out about the trauma of losing her home in a fire that raged through the town at the weekend. WATCH: At least 31 houses destroyed in Overstrand wildfires; video shows devastation in Betty's Bay At least 31 houses have been completely destroyed and 28 partially damaged by wildfires on the coastal Overstrand region in the Western Cape. WATCH: Cape pupil awarded for matriculating after surviving deadly fire Lance Minnies came close to losing his life in a deadly 2016 fire and almost gave up on his studies when he recovered. But it was the hope for a better future and the support of caring people at his school that pulled him through. WATCH: Western Cape firefighters end gruelling day with uplifting song A group of firefighters returned to their base at the Crassula hall in Betty's Bay on Friday, with song and dance. WATCH: Overstrand fire rages on Air support has been brought in to battle a large fire in the Overstrand area in the Western Cape. The fire has devastated areas close to Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els. WATCH:  Fire rages out of control near Hermanus Firefighters from the Overstrand Municipality have spent the last 24 hours fighting an out of control fire about 10km from Hermanus in the Western Cape. WATCH: Firefighter fight blaze to save hectares of Paarl fynbos destroyed in fire At least 500ha of 15-year-old fynbos was lost in the fire that swept through part of Paarl mountain, the Drakenstein municipality said as they scaled down on operations on Friday. WATCH: Fire rages through Paarl mountains Firefighters are battling a fire raging through the mountains in Paarl, Western Cape. WATCH: St Francis Bay residents evacuated over runaway fire The Kouga Municipality in the Eastern Cape has ordered residents of St Francis Bay to evacuate their homes due to a runaway fire currently burning down a number of houses in the area on Tuesday. WATCH: From the cockpit - Pilot's view of the Garden Route fires Firefighting efforts intensified on the Garden Route in the Southern Cape this past weekend, as fires raged, leaving destruction in their wake. WATCH: This Garden Route 'firenado' is actually a fire whirl "Firenados" are more correctly called fire whirls, explained South African Weather Service chief forecaster Kevin Rae after a video capturing the phenomena made the rounds over the weekend. Quick-thinking couple saves sleeping man in burning Durban beachfront building A man was saved at the Durban beachfront on Friday morning, thanks to some quick thinking.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.