Canny Maphanga A man being set alight in a mob justice attack in Hillbrow, Johannesburg. (Supplied, Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A man has died in hospital after he and another man were set alight in Hillbrow, Johannesburg on Monday. The alleged attack happened after residents accused the two men of stealing a handbag from a woman. "The community chased them down and caught them. Unfortunately, once they were caught they applied mob justice," Captain Kay Makhubele told News 24 on Tuesday. Read: Man killed for allegedly stealing grandparents' Sassa cash The second man remains in hospital, where he is being treated for his injuries. No arrests have yet been made. Police are investigating one count of murder and one of attempted murder.  WATCH: Cellphone footage shows violent mob justice on Cape Town promenade On Sunday, the Eden on the bay promenade in Big bay, seemed no different than it usually does on a sunny weekend for the most part of the day. Then the end of the day saw the stretch of grass on the promenade turn into a small war zone. WATCH: Police arrest multiple suspects during drugs and stolen good raid Police arrested several suspects in a crime bust in Johannesburg on Thursday. WATCH. WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. What are the most feared household crimes in South Africa? A recent survey revealed that not only did household crime go up by 5% from the previous year in South Arica, but that citizens also feel it's prevented them from daily tasks and activities, and even letting their children play outside. WATCH: Police chopper corners home robber on N1 Motorists on the N1 south in Johannesburg, South Africa had their commute interrupted on Thursday as police flooded the motorway, to arrest a fleeing house robber. WATCH: Criminal snatches phone out of man's shirt pocket at restaurant A couple enjoying late afternoon lattes were left phone-less at the hands of a brash thief on Wednesday. 

Outdoor sections of restaurants have become hotspots for criminals to snag people's possessions.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.