Canny Maphanga WATCH: 10 million eligible voters are unregistered - IEC Almost 10 million South Africans who are eligible to vote are not registered, the Independent Electoral Commission said on Wednesday. IEC. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) on Saturday said that only 140 voting stations - that constitute 0.6% of all voting stations in the country - have been affected by sporadic community protests. "Voting stations were unable to open in time due to protest action; as of 11:00 this morning, approximately 140 stations were not open due to the protest. "The underlying demand is service delivery-related, hence why they are saying [protestors] do not want to vote," IEC CEO Sy Mamabolo told the media at a briefing in Tshwane. This comes as the IEC holds its final voter registration weekend nationwide ahead of the 2019 general elections. The electoral body further urged South Africans to protest peacefully in a manner which does not infringe on a person's right to exercise their vote.  Registration is reported to be proceeding smoothly and efficiently, despite the less than 1% disruptions, according to the electoral body. "Approximately 99% of the 22 925 voting stations were opened on time and a steady stream of eligible voters visited stations to register and update their registration details," Mamabolo said. ALSO READ: PICS: #VoterRegistrationWeekend - These first-time voters prepare to make their mark The IEC noted several challenges experienced by registration officials relating to weather conditions across the country. "Weather conditions in a number of provinces affected access to voting stations especially due to flooding or impassable roads. "In particular, voting stations located in tents were affected by strong winds and heavy rains in the eastern Free State, parts of Gauteng, the coastal regions of KwaZulu-Natal and parts of Limpopo," he added. The IEC said it continued to work closely with state security agencies to monitor the situation in affected areas and appealed to all South Africans to register to vote in the upcoming elections. "We urge all South Africans to make use of the final opening of voting stations this weekend to register and update addresses for the upcoming national and provincial elections," Mamabolo said. The IEC will only be able to confirm the total number of first-time voters registered on Tuesday; however, there will be a targeted registration at institutions of higher learning to give students an opportunity to vote. South Africans should note that as soon as President Cyril Ramaphosa proclaims the election date, the voters' roll for the 2019 elections will close.  Polls close in Madagacar's presidential election Polls close in Madagascar's presidential election, which has seen voters choose from a packed field of candidates led by three former heads of state pitching their ideas for ending a political crisis and boosting the economy. Suicide bomber kills dozens as Pakistanis vote At least 29 people are dead in a bombing near a polling center in Pakistan, where voting is underway in a general election. Gay rights supporters celebrate failure of vote on same sex marriage ban Gay rights supporters celebrated after a referendum to change Romania's constitution to prevent same sex couples from securing the right to marry failed to draw enough voters to validate the result on Sunday. GA voting rights lawsuit targets GOP's Kemp U.S. voting rights advocacy groups are suing Georgia's top election official, Secretary of State Brian Kemp, accusing him of putting more than 50,000 voter registration applications on hold to boost his gubernatorial campaign. Incumbent Keita wins Mali run-off election Malian President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita has won re-election with 67 percent of the vote in a run-off against opposition rival Soumaila Cisse. The victory hands Keita a second term in the mostly desert West African country where militant violence a... Brexit referendum: What would voters do given the chance again? We asked memberrs of the public in Birmingham how they voted in 2016 and how they would vote if there was another referendum. MP cradles baby in Commons during push for proxy voting A former minister cradled her baby on Parliament's famous green benches - in what is thought to be a first during a Commons debate. 'We'll vote wherever they take our ballot boxes' Turkey's president seeks re-election on 24 June and Kurdish voters may play an important part in determining his future. Watson: 'The country feels genuinely sorry for the PM' Tom Watson urges MPs to vote for a general election Who are youth in the US voting for in midterm elections? US midterm elections are around the corner, and this year's turnout could be historic, thanks to young people. Who are youth in the US voting for in midterm elections? US midterm elections are around the corner, and this year's turnout could be historic, thanks to young people. An unusually high number of youth intend to vote in the Nov 6. elections, suggesting a possible shift in American politics. #Midterms201... Polls close in Mali as run-off marred by violence Polls closed in Mali's run-off presidential election on Sunday (August 12) as security sources confirmed that the chief of one polling station was killed by armed assailants in the Timbuktu region. Biden weighs in on Georgia's 'exact match' law With early voting in the November election already underway in Georgia, a list of 53,000, mostly African American, voter registrations have been put on hold, and critics are blasting it as a deliberate step to disenfranchise minorities. UK needs to 'deliver on the Brexit referendum' says trade minister Liam Fox There's one message British trade minister Liam Fox wants everyone to know: the UK must "deliver on the (Brexit) referendum." Turkey's electoral system explained Since the 1960s, Turkey's Supreme Election Council has been overseeing elections in the country and ensuring that it takes place under fair, transparent and equal conditions. WATCH: Political parties say they are ready for the coming elections Political parties say that they are ready for the coming elections. Speaking to News24 at the IEC elections launch at the Gallagher Convention Centre, the leaders also urged those eligible to vote to go register on January 26 and 27. Italy looks set for another election With coalition talks appearing to break down between bickering parties, a fresh election looks likely for Italy. Bangladesh's Hasina wins, opposition demands new elections Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina's party wins the general election, as the opposition alliance rejects the results and calls for a fresh vote. Claims of 'dirty tricks' in Malaysia vote Malaysian politicians from both government and opposition camps complained of "dirty tricks" after voting in a general election began on Wednesday, as non-stop spam calls to their mobile phones disrupted communications with party organisers. Polls open in Brazil presidential run-off Brazil begins voting in a divisive presidential run-off election whose front-runner, far-right former army captain Jair Bolsonaro, is vowing to rescue the country from crisis with a firm grip. Ballot boxes delivered in helicopter for Irish Presidential elections Voting is under way on a number of islands in Ireland's presidential election.

Ballot boxes were delivered to 11 islands off the coast of counties Donegal, Mayo and Galway on Thursday morning. Thailand's election to be held March 24: Election Commission An Election Commission official says Thailand will hold elections on March 24, the first poll since a military coup in 2014. Polls close in Goma in DR Congo elections Polling stations close in the eastern city of Goma, in the Democratic Republic of Congo. After two years of delays, crackdowns and political turmoil, the country voted in presidential elections that will determine the future of Africa's notoriousl... Polls open in Bangladesh general election People wait in line outside a polling station in Dhaka as polls open and voting begins in Bangladesh's general election which is expected to deliver a record fourth term for Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. Opposition candidate Felix Tshisekedi votes in DR Congo election Felix Tshisekedi, one of the frontrunner opposition candidates, casts his vote in Kinshasa, DR Congo, in presidential elections that will shape the future of one of Africa's biggest and most unstable countries. SCOTUS upholds Ohio voter rolls purge policy The U.S. Supreme Court on Monday revived Ohio's contentious policy of purging infrequent voters from its registration rolls, dealing a setback to voting rights proponents months ahead of the midterm elections. Ebola-hit Congolese town protests with mock vote Residents of an Ebola hotspot in eastern Congo stage a mock presidential election to show the authorities a decision to postpone the vote there due to health fears was unfounded. Challenging a French no-go area to vote A group of first-time voters on a deprived Marseille housing estate are trying to boost turnout at the presidential election this month. DR Congo election officially postponed by 1 week: CENI Long-delayed elections due to be held in DR Congo on Sunday will be postponed by a week after voting machines were destroyed in a warehouse fire. Corneille Nangaa, president of the Independent National Election Commission (CENI), officically annou... Election results leave Congo with uncertainty Democratic Republic of Congo's electoral commission declare opposition leader Felix Tsisekedi winner of a contentious presidential election. However vote tallies from Congo's Catholic church point to a different winner, raising the specter of a stand Vote counting underway in Goma after DR Congo elections Vote counting is underway in the eastern city of Goma. After two years of delays, crackdowns and political turmoil, the Democratic Republic of Congo voted in presidential elections that will determine the future of Africa's notoriously unstable gi... How to steal an election: Gerrymandering explained Votes may not matter if they're not counted fairly. With new strict voter ID laws popping up, minorities and the poor are finding it even harder to cast their ballots in the US. AP explains: unresolved races in Fla, Georgia AP's Washington Bureau chief Julie Pace explains why outstanding races in Florida and Georgia have become so significant, that even President Donald Trump has taken to twitter about one of them. Judge denies Scott bid to impound voting machines Urging all sides to "ramp down the rhetoric," a Florida judge on Monday denied a request by Gov. Rick Scott's Senate campaign to impound voting machines, saying he's seen no evidence of wrongdoing in the vote counting in Broward County. Fire destroys thousands of voting machines ahead of key Congo vote Thousands of voting machines and ballot boxes have been destroyed in a fire at a warehouse in Kinshasa ahead of the Dec. 23 presidential election. DR Congo election: polling stations open in Kinshasa Congolese citizens arrive to cast their vote as polling stations open in Kinshasa. Millions of electors are expected to turn out to choose a successor to President Joseph Kabila. The election's credibility has already been strained by repeated del... Maduro wins re-election amid outcry over vote Venezuela's President Nicolas Maduro comfortably won re-election in a controversial vote on Sunday, the election board said, though his main rivals both declared the poll illegitimate due to alleged widespread irregularities. Turkey's Erdogan claims victory in presidential election Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan claimed victory in Sunday's presidential election and said his ruling AK Party and its alliance partner had won a parliamentary majority. Reuters' Emily Wither reports from Istanbul. Congo's opposition leader wins chaotic presidential election Democratic Republic of Congo's electoral commission declared opposition leader Felix Tshisekedi the surprise winner of the presidential election with 38.57 percent of votes. Madagascar: Rajaonarimampianina casts his vote in 2018 election Presidential candidate Hery Rajaonarimampianina votes in the first round of Madagascar's 2018 election. Rajaonarimampianina is one of three leading candidates, all of whom are former heads of state, now facing-off amid efforts to defuse a politica... Felons emotional as they register to vote in Fla. The right to vote was restored for most Florida felons as of Tuesday, increasing the pool of eligible voters by as many as 1.4 million people in a battleground state infamous for its narrow margins in key elections Delays, storms mar start to Congo's presidential vote Voting in Democratic Republic of Congo's long-anticipated presidential election got off to a shaky start on Sunday due to torrential rain in the capital, long delays at some polling stations and broken-down machines. Bangladesh PM Hasina wins third straight term despite vote-rigging claims Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina's alliance won Bangladesh's election with a thumping majority, the country's Election Commission said on Monday, giving her a third straight term following a vote that the opposition rejected as rigged. One candidate clearly won Congo election - Catholic church Democratic Republic of Congo's Catholic church said on Thursday it was clear which candidate won the country's presidential election, and demanded that the electoral commission publish accurate results. DR Congo awaits results after volatile presidential election In Goma’s polling centres, results give DR Congo opposition candidate, Martin Fayulu, a large lead in the presidential election with more than 60% of the votes with a turnout around 50%. After a relatively bloodless vote, election officials embark... DRC election: mock vote in Beni with makeshift polling stations In Beni, a makeshift vote takes place in response to the postponement of the general elections that are occurring elsewhere in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Youth organisation and members of the population set up makeshift polling stations, wi... DR Congo's large youth population prepares to go to the polls According to population estimates, two-thirds of the roughly 80 million Congolese citizens are under 25 years of age. This Sunday's election will be the first time that the 18-25 age group has the chance to vote, as there have been no general elec... Congo top court declares winner in election Congo’s constitutional court has confirmed Felix Tshisekedi’s presidential election win, dismissing a challenge from another opposition leader who has rejected the court’s decision and declared himself president.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.