Sesona Ngqakamba WATCH: Two farm workers accused of killing Coligny teen found guilty Two farm workers accused of killing a 15-year-old Coligny teen were found guilt of murder in the North West High Court in Mahikeng on Wednesday. Although the parents of 16-year-old Matlhomola Moshoeu won't ever hear their son's voice again or watch him grow into an adult, the court's decision to find two men guilty of his murder has given them some comfort. Watch.WATCH Sentencing proceedings of the two farm workers that were found guilty of the murder of 16-year-old Matlhomola Moshoeu will begin in the North West High Court in Mahikeng on Monday. Pieter Doorewaard and Phillip Schutte were found guilty of murder, kidnapping, intimidation, theft, and pointing a firearm in November 2018. The two were found guilty of murdering Moshoeu in Coligny on April 20, 2017. This is after they claimed that they saw Moshoeu stealing sunflower heads worth R60, after which they loaded him into their bakkie to take him to the police. WATCH: 'I miss him every day' - Mother of murdered Coligny teen Pieter Doorewaard and Phillip Schutte were found guilty of murdering 16-year-old Matlhomola Moshoeu after they had caught him stealing a sunflower in Coligny. They were also found guilty of kidnapping, intimidation, theft and pointing a firearm. They had pleaded not guilty, claiming that Moshoeu had jumped from the vehicle they were driving. While handing down judgment last year, Judge Ronnie Hendricks said that after all the contradictions, probabilities and improbabilities were taken into account, he had relied on the version of the lone witness, Bonakele Pakisi. READ: 2 farm workers found guilty of murdering Coligny teen The defence had argued that Pakisi's testimony was not credible because of contradictions in his statements. "I am satisfied that the evidence of Mr Pakisi is honest, truthful and reliable," Hendricks said while he handed down judgment last year. Hendricks said there was no practical reason why Pakisi would have invented the evidence given, as he remembered "each and every scene" and was able to describe what had happened at the various scenes. Last year, following judgment, News24 reported that Moshoeu's parents, Saki Dingake and Agnes Moshoeu, said they were happy that justice had been "served" when the two were found guilty. "I don't know how long they will be in jail, but I think justice has been served," Agnes  said.  WATCH: A News24 documentary - STEALING SUNFLOWERS  WATCH: Stealing Sunflowers | A News24 Documentary on race relations in Coligny News24 explores the events surrounding the death of 16-year-old Matlhomola Mosweu and how it changed the small North West town of Coligny forever. WATCH: Thieves ambush and rob sleeping truck driver A video of a truck driver valiantly fighting off a suspected robber who broke into his truck while he was sleeping inside has surfaced on social media. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma's culpable homicide trial postponed to March The culpable homicide case against Duduzane Zuma was postponed to March 26 in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday. WATCH: 'That's why Julius must take the land' - woman's Clicks rant goes viral Video footage of a woman verbally attacking a fellow customer at a Clicks pharmacy in Durban has been widely circulated on social media. WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. WATCH: Police arrest KZN man who threatened to blow up office workers Police have arrested a KwaZulu-Natal man who threatened to blow up office workers with a bomb.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.