Jenna Etheridge Bheki Cele visits the Bokmakierie community. (SAPS) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A six-year-old girl who was injured in a deadly drive-by shooting in Athlone, Cape Town, got a surprise visit from Police Minister Bheki Cele on Tuesday. The girl had been in 8th Avenue, Bokmakierie, on Saturday night when shots were fired. A 35-year-old man died on the scene, while two adults aged 25 and 27 - were injured. Cele visited the girl's home to update them on the investigation and offer his support. He then made his way to Red Cross Children's Hospital to visit her. Cele's spokesperson Reneilwe Serero said the child still needed to undergo more medical assessments and would be receiving counselling. In 2016, Saadiqah Lippert, 6, was shot in the stomach just a road away in 9th avenue, and later died in hospital. READ: Fears of escalating gang violence after man killed, 3 injured in Cape Town shooting There are fears that the latest shooting is gang-related, part of a pattern of drive-by shootings in which innocent bystanders are the victims, since the collapse of a peace agreement between rival gangs a few months ago. Athlone Community Policing Forum chairperson Aziza Kannemeyer told News24 on Saturday that shootings in the area were on the rise, especially since a peace deal between rival gangs, which had held for a year, collapsed. The shootings started again in October, said Kannemeyer, and have become an almost daily occurrence since the beginning of December. The shooting on Saturday followed the same pattern – a drive-by shooting in which innocent bystanders were the victims. This time, the shooting took place outside a local spaza shop. Kannemeyer said gang and drug-related incidents were out of control and that the problem was linked to broader societal ills, including youth unemployment. No arrests have yet been made in the latest incident and the motive is being investigated. #PoliceMinistry Minister Bheki Cele visited family of girl (6) who was shot & wounded during gang violence on Saturday in Bokmakierie, Athlone. The incident left a man (35) fatally wounded and two other men wounded. The Minister also visited the young victim in hospital. NP pic.twitter.com/fvInjbYcpJ KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.