Mxolisi Mngadi ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa. (Supplied,  
@MYANC Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Factionalism and patronage have diminished the ability of the ANC to lead the process of transformation and fulfil its mandate to the people, party president Cyril Ramaphosa said on Saturday. He was delivering the party's election manifesto at the Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban. "As the ANC, we admit our shortcomings, we accept the criticism of the people and we are hard at work to correct our mistakes," he said to thousands of ANC supporters who filled up the stadium. LIVE: 'Let’s grow South Africa together' - Ramaphosa concludes ANC election manifesto speech He said the last 25 years have demonstrated the "enormity and complexity" of the task of redressing the injustices of the past and advancing fundamental change. "However, the last 25 years have also shown the great power of a nation working as one to achieve a common goal. The last 25 years have shown the South African people to be resourceful, resilient and determined," he said. Ramaphosa also acknowledged that state capture and corruption have "weakened" some public institutions, "undermined effective governance and contributed to the poor performance of our country". Also read: ANALYSIS: 7 key pointers to look out for in Ramaphosa's speech He said his party was in Durban on Saturday to present a plan that the party had "forged together" to respond to the challenges of the present unemployment, poverty and inequality. #ANCManifesto Ramaphosa says the ANC 2019 manifesto is about transforming the economy for it to serve all people, advancing social transformation, increasing the fight against corruption, building a better nation, Africa and globe @TeamNews24  "The 2019 elections provide an opportunity to restore our democratic institutions and to return our country to a path of transformation, growth and development," he said. As he continued to deliver his address, scores of people were seen walking out of the stadium leaving hundreds of seats empty.     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.