Tshidi Madia The SA Reserve Bank building (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories There are no contradictions within the ANC when it comes to the nationalisation of the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) says the party, following its national executive committee lekgotla over this past weekend. The ANC held a post-NEC lekgotla media briefing on Tuesday, where its leaders reiterated the party’s stance on calls from within the movement to nationalise the Reserve Bank. The move would be in line with its national conference resolutions made at its elective conference in December 2017. ALSO READ: We'll act 'responsibly' and with 'sensitivity' when nationalising Reserve Bank - ANC Leaders have come out on opposite sides of the argument, with some calling for the immediate nationalisation of the bank, while others have defended the independence of the institution. "I think we are talking very clearly about the Reserve Bank here. There is a clear distinction between independence and ownership. Ownership will be by the public, they call it nationalisation, that is the resolution by conference," said ANC secretary general Ace Magashule. Acting ANC spokesperson Dakota Lekgoete said President Cyril Ramaphosa had spoken of the independence of the Reserve Bank, in line with the country’s Constitution, and how it was important for the bank to not only focus on inflation targeting, but to also expand its mandate. 'Economic participation, ownership' He said the ANC wanted the bank to become a public asset, owned primarily by South Africans. "By public ownership of the Reserve Bank, we mean that public investment companies – like the PIC, the IDC, like stokvels that we have, agricultural unions, like taxi associations, individual burial societies – through a share scheme to get access to the Reserve Bank, so that whatever we get as income and revenue must, first and foremost, help South Africans," said Lekgoete. He said the Reserve Bank was currently owned by foreigners who benefitted from its shares. "Even though we accept direct foreign investment, to a certain extent, we must talk about South Africans owning their own public assets as part of us broadening economic participation and economic ownership." ANC NEC member Siyabonga Cwele, who was also at the briefing, said now that the governing party had taken this decision, it was calling for caution in how it was implemented. "We are saying caution must be done. We must explore things and make sure we don’t compromise the independence of the Reserve Bank," he said. "What’s critical is to ensure balance when taking the decision on these things, price stability, jobs, economic growth, and that there must be a fairer balance," he added.  WATCH: Damage to 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard a criminal act – DA The DA has called the damage inflicted on its newly unveiled 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, a 'criminal act'. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi continues to testify at state capture inquiry - Day 2 The second day of testimony by former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi at the commission of inquiry into state capture is set to be far more explosive and damning for the ruling ANC party and his former colleagues. WATCH: 'ANC is killing us' - DA unveils billboard listing names of Marikana, Life Esidimeni victims DA leaders and supporters marched on Wednesday to unveil a new giant billboard in Johannesburg. WATCH: Armed local farmer walks into demonstration in Greyton Western Cape police are probing an incident involving a man who was caught on camera on Monday, wielding a firearm during a demonstration in Greyton. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. ANC launches election manifesto South Africa's ruling ANC party launches its election campaign on Saturday ahead of polls in May that it is tipped to win despite recently falling support, internal divisions and a sluggish economy. On Friday, party members including President Cyr... WATCH: Ramaphosa tees off ahead of ANC's manifesto launch President Cyril Ramaphosa enjoyed a day of golf on Friday morning ahead of  the ANC's birthday celebrations and manifesto launch on Saturday. Ramaphosa played alongside paired players at the Mount Edgecombe Country Club Estate in Durban. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. 'That's hogwash!'- Pule Mabe on accusations of intimate relationship with former PA ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe, who is currently on leave from that role pending the outcome of the inquiry of sexual harassment claims, strongly denied claims that he and his former assistant had an intimate relationship of sorts in the past. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Anti-racism protest shuts down Bronkhorstspruit During a protest against racism in Bronkhorstspruit on Tuesday, where the entire central business district of the small town was shut down, the ANC Youth League in Tshwane have made a call expropriate land belonging to racist farmers.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.