Kaveel Singh School classroom. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Despite a matric pass rate lower than the national average, KwaZulu-Natal is on an upward trajectory, Education MEC Mthandeni Dlungwana said on Friday. "We are happy to announce that, for the third time in a row, we have successfully increased the provincial pass rate. Our overall pass percentage for 2018 stands at 76.2%, which is a 3.3 % increase from the results of 2017." This was, however, still below the national average of 78.2%. - See our Matric Results Page WATCH: Cape Town matrics beam after receiving IEB marks The young men and women exiting Reddam House Atlantic Seaboard in Cape Town on Thursday couldn't stop smiling when they saw that their hard work had paid off for the IEB national senior certificate exams. "The 2018 performance shows that, as a province, we have necessary systems in place which we will continue to strengthen. As we keep saying, we are indeed on the right track. With this strong foundation, we are aiming at nothing below an 80% pass rate this year." The province had 116 152 full-time candidates and 13 103 Adult Education and Training (AET) candidates writing examinations, a number that was the highest in the country, Dlungwana said. - Sign up here to get your 2018 matric results KwaZulu-Natal had 38 573 pupils who achieved bachelor passes. This translated to 33.2% of the total number of full-time candidates for 2018, compared to 28.7% in 2017. Of the 12 districts in the province, all achieved an above 70% pass rate, with the highest coming from the Amajuba district, which achieved an 81.7% pass rate. While Dlungwana said there had been an increase in Mathematics passes since 2016, the rate still stood at a dismal 50.6% in 2018. In Physical Science, the province stood at a 73.6% pass rate in 2018. The number of schools achieving 100% pass rates also increased, with 121 schools showing zero failures. Vandalism and crime Dlungwana said that the issue of vandalism and theft still presented KwaZulu-Natal with serious challenges. "We saw an increase in the number of reported cases of this heinous act. We have tried our best to quell this bad conduct from some community members and we still are sounding a warning to those who continue doing it." He said that, in May last year, there was an act of arson committed at Ebangunini High School. "This, good people, has no place in our democratic country. We need everyone to take very seriously, and respect, education by ensuring that all the educational facilities are protected." He said there were major issues at eMyezaneni High School, where there had been serious theft and damage every year. Dlungwana said that, shortly after delivering learning and teaching support material, it had been stolen. "We are pleading with the communities to work with us so that people who are the enemies of progress are exposed and be dealt with accordingly." Dlungwana said the department also had to move 260 Grade 12 learners from four high schools in the Engonyameni area due to service delivery protests. "We moved those learners to Vukuzakhe High School in order to ensure that they write their examinations without any interruptions." Sanitary towels initiative Dlungwana also said that the provision of sanitary towels to female pupils had been a success. "Our interactions with a variety of our stakeholders, including parents, have proved to us that the introduction of this programme has had a huge impact in ensuring that no girl learner misses any school day as a result of not being able to afford sanitary towels." He added that national government would following suit, with the introduction of this programme in all the provinces. "Our team that is facilitating the distribution of sanitary towels in KwaZulu-Natal has had meetings with the representatives from the Presidency who are keen to learn from this province." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Alec Baldwin teaches 'Trump School' Comedian Alec Baldwin headlined a state Democratic party banquet teaching school lessons about Donald Trump. Broncos president: Finding 'new normal' critical for Humboldt Students returned to school in Humboldt, Saskatchewan, on Tuesday following Friday's bus crash that killed 15 people. The director of education for Greater Saskatoon Catholic Schools says the students were "happy to be together." Raqqa's schools resemble battlegrounds More than a year since the United States and its allies defeated Islamic State in the Syrian city of Raqqa, many of its schools still resemble battlegrounds that are unfit for purpose. Teens on how social media could affect well-being of students The Toronto District School Board says social media use is one area of concern as new data indicates a decline in students’ well-being. One high schooler says turning off phone notifications is one way he maintains “balance.” WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. Lost deer causes chaos at school CCTV captures the moment an open door at Enterprise High School in Missouri tempts a lost deer, which tumbles over as it hurtles along a corridor. The school's principal said the animal was going 'full throttle'. Spurned advances may have provoked Texas shooting A teenaged boy who shot and killed eight students and two teachers in Texas had been spurned by one of his victims after making aggressive advances, her mother told the Los Angeles Times. In Pakistan public education suffocates under surging population At the Tanjai Cheena school in northwest Pakistan students squeeze into makeshift classrooms where plastic tarps serve as walls and electricity is sparse, as a surging population overstretches the country's fragile education system. US schools walk out over gun violence Students were demanding gun legislation that promotes school safety, 19 years since the Columbine massacre. Teacher recalls shooting victim Reese Fallon as friendly, kind A Grade 12 teacher of Toronto shooting victim Reese Fallon says he remembers the 18-year-old as "witty" and a leader at school. Fallon, who graduated from Malvern Collegiate last month, was killed in the Sunday attack. Six sets of twins dominate one high school basketball team A feature on Wednesday (28th November) at Splendora high school in Texas, where six sets of twins have dominated the school's basketball schedule. Turkey's Maarif Foundation hosts first graduation ceremony in Afghanistan In Afganistan, where 3.5 million children are out of school, these high school students from an Afghan-Turkish school are celebrating their graduation. China's youth embrace street dance amid hip-hop crackdown In China, where children are often saddled with a packed schedule of extracurricular activities before they even enter grade school, some parents are making room for a surprising pursuit: hip-hop dance classes. Silicon Valley - Can Games Create an Education Fit for the Future? Imagine a school where playing video games is encouraged during classes and may even replace exams. A new educational programme uses SimCity to test children on vital problem-solving skills. French teachers protest against Macron reform plan Nearly one in two high school teachers, and one in four primary school teachers, go on strike against President Macron's plans to reform France's education sector and cut jobs - the first time all teaching unions have agreed to strike together sin... Celebrity Closeup: John Krasinski Growing up just outside of Boston, Massachusetts, John Krasinski made his stage debut in sixth grade as Daddy Warbucks in a school production of 'Annie'. He went on to study theater and playwriting in college, even spending time training with the ... EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. Launch and Demo with Delane Parnell (PlayVS) Hear from Delane Parnell about the evolution of esports, and check out the high school esports platform for the very first time. John Krasinski says success of A Quiet Place makes him feel like a 'high school kid' Hollywood star John Krasinski has admitted that the reaction to 'A Quiet Place' has made him feel like a "high school" kid. Up to 10 dead in Texas school shooting A school shooting in Texas has killed eight to 10 people. Santa Fe High School near Houston was put on lockdown at around 8am. Police say two people believed to be students have been detained. Hollywood's Fresh Faces: Lakeith Stanfield Rising star Lakeith Stanfield grew up in a tough neighborhood. In high school, he didn't have many friends because he says the other kids were just interested in fighting and starting riots, so he found refuge in the drama club. Drake to executive produce teen drama 'Euphoria' Actor turned rapper Drake is returning to high school to executive produce a new TV series starring Zendaya. Japanese students produce virtual reality sequence of Hiroshima attack Japanese high school students have produced a five-minute virtual reality experience that recreates the sights and sounds of Hiroshima before, during and after the US dropped an atomic bomb on the city 73 years ago. The high school head who opened a laundry Akbar Cook realised students were missing school out of fear of being bullied for their dirty clothes, so he found a solution. Drake still texts his high school teacher Drake has revealed he still texts his high school teacher - despite dropping out of school to pursue his career - as she congratulated him for his recent chart success. High school and university students protest in Paris Several hundred high school students are joined by university students at the Place Saint Michel in Paris to protest education reforms, including changes to crucial end-of-high school exams and access to higher education. Meet the teenager studying combat at school A surge of patriotism in Poland has resulted in increased demand for military classes in high schools. The BBC joined one student, Doris for field training and combat lessons. French police arrest hundreds of students across the country French students have been blocking access to high schools across France in protest of President Emmanuel Macron's education reforms. #France #Franceprotests #giletsjaunes #Macron What's changed with school league tables? Robert Cuffe, BBC News head of statistics, explains new-style secondary school league tables for England. Is this the most patriotic Canadian? High school teacher Dave Suchanek is so patriotic about Canada, he's created an alter ego: Flagman. High School Students Robotics Teams High school students from Bellarmine College Preparatory, Davis High School and Hercules High School present their robotics projects. Celebrity Closeup: Octavia Spencer Octavia Spencer grew up in Montgomery, Alabama, the sixth of seven kids in her large family. She was in the drama club in high school, then at college studied English and journalism as well as theatre. Grandfather’s ashes baked into cookies: police A California high school student is accused of baking her grandfather's cremated remains into a batch of cookies and handing them out to classmates who ate them. Philippine court jails police officers for drug war murder A Philippine court has found three police officers guilty of murder in the killing of a 17-year-old high school student last year. #Duterte #Philippines #drugwar Philippines court hands down first murder verdict against police in drug war A Philippine court on Thursday found three police officers guilty of murder for the killing of a 17-year-old high school student, the first such conviction in President Rodrigo Duterte's war on drugs. Philippine court jails officers for drug war murder A Philippine court finds three police officers guilty of murdering a 17-year-old high school student last year, as part of President Rodrigo Duterte's war on drugs. Texas student: 'I ran as fast as I could' Two Santa Fe High School students describe the immediate aftermath of the mass shooting on their campus. Celebrity Closeup: Kristen Bell Actress Kristen Bell was born in the suburbs of Detroit, Michigan. As a child, she hated her first name, and used her middle name Anne instead until she reached high school. Hollywood's Fresh Faces: Brian Tyree Henry Brian Tyree Henry grew up mainly in North Carolina with his four sisters, until their parents separated and his mom moved the family to Washington, DC. SA's top matriculant missed half the school year due to a rare disease After missing almost six months of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker managed to nab the coveted spot of SA's best matriculant. Dueling protests over gun control at Florida supermarket Survivors of a February shooting at a Florida high school were met with counter-demonstrators when they protested donations made by a supermarket chain to a gubernatorial candidate who supports gun rights. WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. Pakistan's solar-powered schools for the underprivileged A 'SLUM' school run by Rohayl Varind is Pakistan's first solar night school. David Oakes: Schools should teach lesser known Shakespeare plays Victoria star David Oakes has said he would like to see the lesser known Shakespeare plays taught in schools.

The actor, best known for playing Prince Ernest in the ITV period drama, said an attempt should be made to broaden people's horizons, ra... Why Kenyan school children say 'no', loudly School girls and boys in Kenyan schools are being taught self defence and how to report sexual and physical attacks. Powerlifting school teacher finds success at 50 Lucille Rowan is a weightlifter who won Commonwealth silver at powerlifting a year after first picking up a weight aged almost 50. Ed Sheeran slams music funding cuts Ed Sheeran has slammed cuts to music education and revealed he was "benefited hugely" from the music education provided at his state school. The anger propelling teachers into politics Over the past few months, massive teacher protests have shut down schools across the country. Now, the fight for education funding is prompting some to run for office. Marseille high school students clash with police Thousands of high school students take to the streets in Marseille, as more and more join students protest against education reforms affecting university admission.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.