Vincent Lali Nomaphelo Mdanjelwa’s shack in Extension Six, Mfuleni was destroyed by City officials on Tuesday. (Vincent Lali) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Law enforcement officials on Tuesday removed 15 shacks from what was previously vacant land in Extension Six, Mfuleni, GroundUp reports. Nomaphelo Mdanjelwa is six months pregnant and lives with her two children, aged three and five. She said she has battled to survive since losing her job as a grape picker in May 2018. "My kids don't get a government grant because they have no birth certificates so I don't even have money to buy food," said Mdanjelwa. She said she was at the Department of Home Affairs in Bellville to apply for birth certificates for her children when her shack was demolished. "When I came back from the department I noticed that the spot where my shack stood was vacant and my building materials were gone. My heart aches." She relies on friends and relatives for food and other basic necessities and has asked them for unused corrugated iron and poles to rebuild her shack as she has "nowhere else to go". READ: Mfuleni's evicted land occupiers squat in makeshift communal shacks Phindeka Mambela, 30, was a backyarder in Extension Six before she built her shack on the land. She said she paid her landlord R350 for rent and R100 for electricity on a monthly basis. "I lost my job as a cleaner in Killarney two years ago," said Mambela. She said she now works as a stand-in domestic worker in Blouberg but doesn't earn enough money to pay rent. She has two children. Malusi Booi, the City's mayoral committee member for human settlements, confirmed that the City had removed 15 structures from the land. "The City's anti-land invasion unit will only remove unoccupied illegal structures. This does not require a court order," said Booi. "Every municipality in South Africa acts to protect land from invasion" as the practice can "get in the way of service delivery and economic development". He said that illegal occupations often occur on land that is unsuitable for human habitation, preventing the City from legally providing services to the residents. WATCH: 'I don't know where I'm sleeping tonight' - Joe Slovo informal settlement evictee Eighteen families who refused to vacate a piece of land meant for a housing project in Joe Slovo, Langa, were evicted on Wednesday morning. Zuma on land: Less debate, more nationalisation Former President Jacob Zuma said there is too much debate about land expropriation without compensation to his liking, and suggested that land should be nationalised. Land grabs have taken over Malboro Gardens Land grabs have taken over Malboro Gardens in Gauteng, while the local ward councilor has no interest in resolving the issue, a disgruntled resident alleges. WATCH: High Court instructs government to draft a plan for District 6 restitutions Since the Restitution of Land Rights Act 22 of 1994 came into effect our government has failed to provide adequate restitution to the people of District Six - as well as having violated their constitutional  rights. WATCH: Rural community wins right to reject mining on their land The Pretoria High Court has ruled that the minister of mineral resources will have to get consent from the Xolobeni community prior to granting mining rights on their land. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. LAND REFORM: The exact moment resolution to amend Constitution is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. Land expropriation: EFF says it's race issue; DA questions process Court action to prevent Parliament from amending the Constitution to allow for expropriation without compensation seems imminent as parties opposing an amendment to section 25 all sang from the same hymn sheet. WATCH: Ramaphosa handing over 4 586 hectares of land to a KZN community President Cyril Ramaphosa handed over more than 4000 hectares of land to the KwaMkhwanazi community in Empangeni, northern KwaZulu-Natal on Sunday. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. WATCH: Lehae land invaders vow to stay Residents of Lehae, south of Johannesburg, who invaded vacant RDP houses said they will not be shaken after the police evicted them and took the doors of their now homes. We would like to win that land in Stellenbosch because it belongs to us - 'Azania' residents Application for an eviction order by the owner of a plot of private land that people are building shacks on in Stellenbosch was postponed to the 29th of August today   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.