Pelane Phakgadi Manual Chang. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former Mozambican finance minister Manuel Chang is to remain behind bars after briefly appearing in the Kempton Park Magistrate's Court on Tuesday. Through his lawyers, the 63-year-old argued that his detention was unlawful and that his extradition, if carried out, would also be illegal. Chang was on his way to Dubai when he was arrested on December 30 at OR Tambo International Airport in terms of a United States warrant of arrest. READ: The banker bros who bankrupted Mozambique It is alleged that the former minister approved secret loans that led to the country being plunged into a financial crisis. Last week, police spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo said Chang had been red flagged by Interpol. People are put on Interpol's red list at the request of member countries which want another member country to provisionally arrest a wanted person, pending an extradition. ALSO READ: Court delays hearing on Mozambique ex-finance minister Although Chang's lawyers attempted to have cameras barred in court, the magistrate granted the media permission to use cameras. Magistrate Sagra Subroyen postponed the matter to Tuesday so that she can peruse the written arguments which the State and the defence submitted. A day after his arrest, Mozambican news outlet Carta de Mozambique reported that Chang could face up to 45 years in prison. He is reportedly wanted for conspiracy for wire fraud, conspiracy to commit securities fraud and money laundering, according to an arrest warrant the newspaper saw. Dirco clarifies why SA journalist was arrested in Tanzania South African journalist Angela Quintal and her Kenyan colleague Muthoki Mumo were arrested in Tanzania because they were working while in the country on tourist visas, Tanzanian authorities have told the SA government. The circumstances are dire in SA but we can't lose hope - Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) leader prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi says corruption has become endemic in South Africa.  He added that people must do as much as they can to expose the corrupt politicians. Trained officials key to implementing changed rules for child travellers, says SA tourism minister "This does not mean returning on the first flight home...the traveller will be given adequate opportunity to obtain the documentation without just being shipped out."   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.