Kamva Somdyala WATCH: High speed N1 Cape Town crash leaves BMW driver critical Video of a BMW crashing into a barrier on the N1 in Cape Town and spinning out of control has gone viral online. The driver of a BMW who lost control of his vehicle and crashed on the N1 in Century City is in a critical condition. (Picture: ER24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The driver of a BMW, who lost control of his vehicle and crashed on the N1 in Century City in an apparent "street race", is in a critical condition. ER24 paramedics found the man, 26, and took him to hospital in the early hours of Monday, ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring said in a statement. "On assessment, paramedics found that the man had sustained serious injuries to his legs and head, leaving him in a critical condition." In a video on YouTube, the car can be seen changing lanes at high speed late on Sunday night. It is at that point that the driver loses control of the car and crashes into the centre median. Several people captured footage of the incident from an overhead bridge. It is not clear why they were filming the traffic before the accident occurred. The car is then seen stationary in one of the oncoming traffic lanes. Police had not responded to a request for comment at time of publication, or whether the incident was part of an apparent street race. A post on Facebook identified the driver's first name as Tawfeeq. "It's one thing driving high performance cars but it's another when things go wrong," read a post from Seelo Performance. "Brother Tawfeeq from CT rolled his car at Sable last night... He isn't doing to well, duas requested... May Allah grant him a speedy recovery and make it easy for him and his family." City of Cape Town 'appalled' The City of Cape Town on Monday said it was "appalled" by the video. "The incident is just the latest example of the devastation wrought by illegal street racers on our streets. What is equally concerning is the group of people gathered on the overpass who were filming the incident," said mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith. "It is representative of an ongoing problem that our traffic officers have to contend with week in and week out, particularly the Ghost Squad." The City said it was engaging with the National Prosecuting Authority about the matter, but that only police can investigate cases of apparent street racing. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Oh beer! Crates of alcohol crash out of beer truck in Cape Town It was unhappy hour for a truck driver who lost a huge load of beer after attempting to turn his vehicle in South Africa on Friday. WATCH: Scary dashcam footage shows how two trucks collide head-on in Mpumalanga Two trucks collided head-on and a third was pushed off the road from Bethel to Kriel in Mpumalanga on Friday.

Dashcam footage from one of the trucks showed the chaotic scene, which involved four heavy vehicles taking up two lanes. WATCH: Cape Town's karate kid raises tournament money through hard work and community support A pint-sized karate kid from Lansdowne in Cape Town has unleashed his inner entrepreneur, raising money to take part in a national karate tournament by selling atchar, dried fruit and sauces at a stall in Rylands. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. WATCH: Driver reverses BMW i8 over pond, hedge and into wall A Joburg driver was left devastated after she crashed a BMW i8 into the neighbour's wall. WATCH: New footage shows armed men fleeing after Joburg M1 shootout New footage has emerged giving further insight into the shooting on Johannesburg's M1 on Monday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.