Ntwaagae Seleka A file image of KwaZulu-Natal MEC for health Sibongiseni Dhlomo. (Ian Carbutt) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories KwaZulu-Natal health MEC Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo is calling for a dialogue about the dangers of unprotected sex and the high proportion of maternal deaths during teenage pregnancies. Dlhomo believes the dialogue would reduce by up to half the number of mothers who die while giving birth, or shortly afterwards. The MEC was speaking on Tuesday at GJ Crookes Hospital in Scottburgh, where he announced that by 08:00, the province had registered 36 babies born on New Year’s Day. Seventeen of them were boys, while 19 were girls. "Significantly, teenage pregnancy accounts for about 8 – 10% of all deliveries in the country, which is about a million deliveries per year. But close to 45% of maternal deaths in the country come from this small 10% [of teenage mothers], because these young people generally delay coming to our clinics. "They hide the pregnancy. And by the time they come to deliver, there are certain complications that cannot be reversed. Therefore, if we were to reduce or eradicate teenage pregnancy, we would significantly improve the maternal health outcomes of the province," he said. READ: Teenage pregnancy on the rise Thirty-year-old Bongiwe Mlotshwa’s daughter was the first New Year’s Day baby in the province, who arrived exactly on the stroke of midnight, at Eshowe Hospital. The two youngest mothers of New Year’s Day babies are both aged 16, and they gave birth at Ekhombe and Edendale Hospitals respectively. There were also three teenage mothers aged 18 who gave birth at Rietvlei, St Apollinaris, and Emmaus hospitals; and another three mothers aged 19, whose babies were born at Nkandla, St Apollinaris and Edendale hospitals. Applaud the hospital Dhlomo was pleased with GJ Crookes Hospital for having developed a programme of community dialogues to heighten awareness about protected sex. He applauded the hospital for having not recorded a single maternal death for the past three quarters of the year. The MEC described the hospital as a beacon of hope. He also commended the mayor of Umdoni Municipality, Thabani Dube, and his counterpart at Umzumbe Municipality, Sizwe Ngcobo, respectively, for being active members of the hospital board. READ: Teen pregnancy a rising concern "The governance of this hospital, not only on the side of management, but also in terms of community leaders who are supporting it, is what makes it to be this strong. Recently, we had a meeting with the Minister of Health Dr Aaron Motsoaledi where we expressed our concern regarding the rate of maternal deaths, which are coming in mainly from district hospitals. "Listening to the leadership of this hospital, from doctors to nurses… how much they are supported by the district specialist teams… and consultants from neighbouring hospitals, I would wish that we could take the lessons from here and cascade them to other hospitals to improve maternal and child health outcomes because that is one our main goals," he concluded.  What's new for 2019: Celebrity babies on the way! Having a baby is no doubt lifechanging and since announcing their pregnancies this year, we know these lovely ladies are about welcome their mini me’s into the world. First baby born after womb transplant from dead donor A woman in Brazil has given birth to a baby girl after receiving a womb transplant from a deceased donor, in the first successful case of its kind. #wombtransplant #brazil #transplant Dad survives 120mph bike crash to see his daughter's birth A pregnant mum whose husband was languishing in a coma just two days before their first scan says their daughter's birth was the "best Christmas gift ever" after fearing the baby would never meet her dad.
His body shattered, after a 120mph motorbi... Woman in burning apartment drops baby to bystander A woman dropped her baby to a bystander as a fire engulfed an apartment complex in Dallas, while other residents were forced to leap from third-floor windows on to mattresses.

A Dallas fire service official said several residents and bystanders, ... A mama buffalo gives birth and adorable first steps of newborn We all love baby animals, but we rarely get to see them come into the world!
One lucky sales manager, Brett Reisen, captured the miracle of birth when a mama buffalo popped out its newborn on a dirt road in Sabi Sands. Salvadoran Per Anger Prize winner talks about award Teodora del Carmen Vasquez, a Salvadoran woman who was sentenced to 30 years in prison for murder after giving birth to a stillborn child, talks about receiving the 2018 Per Anger Award for supporting human rights and democracy. Vasquez was releas... Somalia's only free ambulance service running out of cash The only free ambulance service in Somalia, called Aamin Ambulance, is currently under-funded and may have to shut down. Ready to help everyone, whether they are victims of armed violence, a car accident or complications during childbirth, ending ... The Duke of Sussex 'is hoping for a baby girl' The Duke of Sussex is reportedly hoping his wife gives birth to a baby girl. Transgender women find haven in Islamic boarding school In the world's larget Muslim-majority country, Indonesian transgender women have found a safe haven at an Islamic boarding school. The special ritual for mothers after childbirth Why women in Ethiopia's Oromia region hold a special ceremony for a mother, five days after she gives birth. Keira Knightley denies 'shaming' the Duchess of Cambridge in childbirth essay Keira Knightley says she "absolutely did not shame anybody" with her essay about childbirth, in which she described watching the Duchess of Cambridge leaving hospital in high heels and make-up after delivering Princess Charlotte. Gisele Bundchen was shocked by new man Tom Brady's baby news Gisele Bundchen’s world was reportedly, turned "upside down" when she learned her new boyfriend's ex was pregnant. Pete Davidson jokes he switched Ariana Grande's birth control pills with Tic Tacs Pete Davidson is so shocked that he's engaged to Ariana Grande that he's desperate to get her pregnant so she can't "leave." Adorable baby elephant takes first steps Umngani, a 28-year-old elephant, has given birth to a healthy, 281-pound female calf--the biggest calf ever to be born at the San Diego Zoo Safari Park. A newborn calf generally weighs 200 to 268 pounds at birth. Chrissy Teigen making early plans for baby number three Chrissy Teigen is apparently already thinking on expanding her family with baby number three just four months after giving birth to her son, Miles. Drake sues woman over pregnancy and rape claims Drake has reportedly filed a lawsuit against a woman named Layla Lace who claimed that he got her pregnant before accusing him of rape after they allegedly had consensual sex after one of his concerts in Manchester last year. ‘If I can do it, you can do it:’ Woman big-rig driver XTL Transport vice-president of human resources says the trucking industry is a “man’s world” but there’s a need to try to attract more women drivers. Long-haul truck driver Vivianne Carbonneau says she likes the job’s alone time. Chrissy Teigen helped by eating placenta Chrissy Teigen thinks eating placenta is "normal" and believes it helped her avoid suffering post-partum depression for a second time. Chrissy Teigen believes she's avoided postpartum depression by eating her placenta The Model and TV presenter and her husband John Legend welcomed Baby number 2, a little boy called Miles earlier this year. His sister Luna was born in 2016 and Chrissy had suffered with postpartum depression. Chrissy Teigen drank too much after daughter's birth Chrissy Teigen was "drinking too much" following the birth of her daughter two years ago, as part of her battle with postpartum depression. Cardi B suffered 'complications' after pregnancy Cardi B suffered "post-partum complications" following the birth of her baby daughter Kulture, she has revealed in court documents for her ongoing lawsuit. Rock hyrax babies born at Chester Zoo Chester Zoo has welcomed the birth of three baby rock hyraxes, also known as 'rock bunnies'. ICE arrests man driving pregnant wife to hospital Immigration agents have arrested an undocumented immigrant who was driving his pregnant wife to hospital to give birth. Pregnant woman and child killed in Israeli air strikes Hamas fired dozens of rockets into Israel and the Israeli military carried out scores of air strikes as fighting near the Gaza-Israel border intensified overnight into Thursday. Tokyo medical school cut entry scores to block women Tokyo Medical University deliberately cut women's entry exam scores to stop them getting in. And that's been going on for at least the past decade, the university's own internal investigation has found. Samantha Eastwood: Man charged with murder A 32-year-old man is due in court charged with the murder of midwife Samantha Eastwood. Pelvic Floor Exercise For Men Most women are well aware of their pelvic floor muscles, they're often encouraged to practice exercises to strengthen them in preparation for childbirth and to restore 'what was' afterwards. Now research is showing men should also be strengthening... Postnatal Depression Postnatal depression is common in women after they've given birth, and it seems to make sense that if women receive professional support after giving birth it would reduce the chances of developing depression. However research at the Institute of ... Cardi B can't move her legs after giving birth Cardi B has admitted she's on a mission to lose her baby weight after giving birth to her daughter Kulture three weeks ago but she can't move her legs properly at the moment. Cardi B pulls out of Bruno Mars tour to focus on baby Kulture Cardi B has decided not to go on tour with Bruno Mars as she is not physically ready after recently giving birth. Doctor on trial over Spain's 'stolen babies' A doctor has been prosecuted over the "stolen babies" scandal that affected thousands in Spain under Franco's regime. Kris Jenner delivering Cardi B's baby? Kris Jenner has asked heavily-pregnant Cardi B if she can be her midwife when she goes into labour. Cardi B wants to take her newborn on tour Rapper Cardi B is said to be planning on touring with her baby daughter in September. The hitmaker is still pregnant with the tot, and seems determined to not let the birth disrupt her career. Model Candice Swanepoel gives birth to baby No 2 Model Candice Swanepoel give birth to her second child recently. The Victoria's Secret star took to Instagram to share a story of a baby's hand wrapped around her finger with the word Blessed written on it. Over the Bull's Backs The Hamer people number no more than 15,000, living in the Omo River Valley at the border between Ethiopia and Sudan. For a boy to become a man they must undertake 3 trials. WARNING: Contains images of animal slaughter. NY pizza delivery man granted emergency stay A federal judge has temporarily blocked the deportation of a pizza deliveryman who was detained after delivering food to an army base in New York. Pizza delivery man arrested at Army base A pizza delivery man was detained and turned over to immigration authorities after delivering food to an Army base in New York. His wife and children now fear he will be deported. Suspect accused of stabbing 11-month-old baby on the run Police have named a man who is on the run suspected of stabbing an 11-month-old baby and a 32-year-old woman. Japanese employees on a pregancy rota Japanese employers are forcing women, especially in nurseries and hospitals, to follow a 'pregnancy rota' in order to conceive babies - all so the employees don't take maternity leave when they want to. T Chrissy Teigen can't find premature baby clothes for son Chrissy Teigen has admitted she's going to start sewing because she can't find any clothes to fit her premature son Miles. Mindy Kailing was working out right up until the birth of baby girl Actress and comedienne Mindy Kaling has shared how when she was pregnant, she kept working out right up to the day that she went into labour last December Kylie Jenner 'still feels pregnant' Kylie Jenner admits that she 'loves' her body since giving birth to baby Stormi, but hasn't been working out and still eats everything as though she were pregnant.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.