Qhama Dayile Pitch Black Afro. (Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Pitch Black Afro was in a jolly mood when he took the stand. He sprung up the wooden stairs unchained, wearing an army green shirt and had plaited his afro down. The musician greeted all his friends, family and familiar faces with arms stretched out and he was even happier to see his mother Geli Ngcobo in court. "Ah mama, I wish I could kiss you. You look beautiful," he said. And the court shook with laughter as he took the stand. Pitch Black Afro, whose real name is Thulani Ngcobo, is being charged with premeditated murder of his wife of 23 years Catherine ‘Trisha’ Modusane, 41. He appeared at the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday morning to apply for bail. But his case was postponed to January 18, 2019 to verify his residential address and to give his family members time to confirm whether, granted bail, they would be comfortable with Thulani staying over at the home during the course of the trial. Pitch Black will remain in custody until the next trial date. Pitch Black Afro remains behind bars after case postponed pending bail application | @Sesona_Ngqaks https://t.co/TKeQ17F3iU pic.twitter.com/wmPOYzwvbD Happy that the Let's Make Love rapper will be locked up is Pitch Black Afro and Trisha’s friend of nine years and member of Vukamzansi Movement, Khanyisani Vilakazi. "I blame him. He should have managed his emotions better," Khanyisani tells Drum. "He is in the public eye and should know better. I believe he did the crime." Khanyisani says he was not present when the incident happened but he was phoned in the wee hours of the night to come and assist when a friend heard raucous coming from Pitch Black Afro and Trisha’s room. "I wasn’t there when the incident happened, but I came straight after when the body had already been taken away," he says. Pitch Black’s mom could not comment on the matter, but his manager Bheki Mlambo says: "This has taken a strain on both families" and they wish for the matter to be resolved in a fair manner. Rapper Thulani Ngcobo, popularly known as Pitch Black Afro is back in the Johannesburg Magistrates Court. He is charged with murder, premeditated murder and defeating the ends of justice for the alleged killing of his wife, Catherine Modisane. (@Sesona_Ngqaks) pic.twitter.com/sg4pfh2WBI    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.