Riaan Grobler (File, Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 35-year-old senior vehicle examiner at a testing station near Lephalale is facing a fraud charge for allegedly issuing a roadworthy certificate to an unroadworthy vehicle. According to a source within the Department of Transport, the examiner acts as a management representative of Palale Private vehicle testing station. The examiner allegedly issued the certificate after a bus was tested by the Gauteng municipal pounding authority and found to be unroadworthy. When the driver of the bus attempted to leave the pound with the vehicle, the traffic chief reported the incident to national authorities and an investigation ensued. The Anti-Fraud and Corruption Unit at the Limpopo Department of Transport investigated the matter with the National Department of Transport's Vehicle and Driver's Licence Compliance Unit and the examiner was arrested in Lephalale on Thursday, January 17. During the arrest, more than 800 files, roadworthy applications, a cellphone and a computer were confiscated. More arrests are expected. The examiner is expected to appear in court soon on a charge of fraud. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: This race horse just sold for a cool R4 million This year's top seller at the Cape Premier Yearling Sale was an unnamed filly that sold for R4 million from the Klawervlei Stud farm located in Breede River outside Bonnievale, Western Cape. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma's culpable homicide trial postponed to March The culpable homicide case against Duduzane Zuma was postponed to March 26 in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday. WATCH: 'That's why Julius must take the land' - woman's Clicks rant goes viral Video footage of a woman verbally attacking a fellow customer at a Clicks pharmacy in Durban has been widely circulated on social media. WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. Woman in critical condition after Audi horror crash A woman is in a critical condition after the Audi she was traveling in veered off the road, became airborne and slammed into a sign post, emergency services have said. WATCH: Police arrest KZN man who threatened to blow up office workers Police have arrested a KwaZulu-Natal man who threatened to blow up office workers with a bomb.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.