Ntwaagae Seleka (Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories As the ANC prepares to commemorate its 107th anniversary on Saturday in Durban, a couple in the city has decided to honour the ANC by naming their child after the ruling party. According to the ANC Women's League (ANCWL), the baby was born at Addington Hospital in Durban on Tuesday, on the same day the governing party turned 107 years. Soon after the arrival of their child, Mpumelelo Dlamini and his wife Nosipho Dlamini decided to name their child "Khongolose", which is a colloquial Zulu term for the ANC. "Our baby has already been named Siko, which means culture in English. As we see this good culture that the ANCWL is practicing of coming to visit us, we will be calling him uSiko Luka Khongolose," said Nosipho. READ: Nearly half of maternal deaths in SA are teenage mothers – health MEC The ANCWL said Khongolose was among three other babies who were born on January 8 and was showered with gifts by league president Bathabile Dlamini, her deputy, Sisi Ntombela, and secretary general Meokgo Matuba. Other ANCWL national executive committee members also paid the newborns a visit. The young mother said she was delighted by the visit, adding that it would make the birthday of her son more memorable. There were joyful scenes in the hospital ward as the ANCWL members erupted into song to wish the January 8 babies well as they embark on their journey of life. #PeoplesManifesto LaunchANCWL President Comrade Bathabile Dlamini accompanied by MEC of Health Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo arrives at Addington hospital to welcome babies born on the same day as the ANC.#ANC107 #ThumaMina pic.twitter.com/xNiYfUawkq  "As the women's league we decided it was important that they know that they were born on this day. This day is very important in the life of every South African that is committed to prosperity, non-sexism, non-racialism. We want these babies to know that they are very special and very important," said Dlamini. The party is currently hosting festivities across the province to celebrate its birthday. On Saturday, party president Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to address members during the launch of the ANC's 2019 election manifesto at the Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban. Senior party members, including the ANC top six, are zigzagging the province, canvassing for support.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.