Kaveel Singh WATCH: 'Give me a tender' - sings satirical 'Elvis' on Bosasa scandal The much-talked about Bosasa scandal has gripped South Africa over the past week since former chief-operating officer Angelo Agrizzi blew the whistle on bribery and corruption. The SA National Editors Forum (Sanef) and the Zondo Commission have agreed to go back to the drawing board with regulations that limit access to information of the inquiry. This follows a meeting held between both parties in Johannesburg on Saturday where a "positive and productive" session took place. Commission regulation, the timing of the release of commission documents and allegations of a list of paid journalists were among the main talking points. Sanef objected to a regulation that restricts the dissemination or perusal of any documents submitted to the commission without the permission of the chairperson. READ: Sanef concerned over Zondo's criticism of the media for publishing leaked affidavit "Sanef raised a number of concerns with this regulation including the concern that it prohibits journalists from accessing documents already in the public domain," Commission spokesperson Reverend Mbuyiselo Stemela said on Saturday. He said they agreed to look at the legal implications of the restriction and to take the matter further. "This is to ensure a careful balance between ensuring access to documents already in the public domain, and released by witnesses themselves, and further protecting the integrity of the Commission’s work and processes." The importance of journalists having access to a full set of witness documents was also raised – with media asking for access to ensure in-depth and nuanced coverage of the issues. LISTEN: Bosasa bosses Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma "The commission indicated that, as a general rule, it will release witness’s statements to the media when a witness has dealt with all matters covered in his or her statement," said Stemela. However, a special arrangement would be made for the chairperson of the commission to grant journalists accredited by the Commission permission to have access to documents and witness statements prior to and after evidence is given. "In such a case the chairperson will grant access on terms and conditions that he may stipulate," he said. Journalists on the payroll Sanef also discussed allegations that journalists were paid by Bosasa to write them positive stories, saying it could cast "aspersions on the journalism profession as a whole". "The Commission informed Sanef that, as the evidence suggests that payments were made to journalists as bribes to cover-up corruption or turn a blind eye to State Capture, the Commission is bound to investigate this matter further as part of its work," Stemela said. He said Sanef welcomed the move, requesting the public to forward any information they may have to the commission. "Both parties acknowledged that there was a need to have ongoing discussions in order to deal with other issues on which they may still wish to find common ground." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  LISTEN: Bosasa bosses Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma [WITH SUBTITLES] In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. LISTEN: Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. WATCH: Agrizzi details unfair advantage given to Bosasa to secure 'one of the biggest' tenders Former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi is on the stand for the fifth day at the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry - Agrizzi to implicate more officials Former Bosasa chief operating officer Angelo Agrizzi will be back on the witness stand for a fifth day and more officials are expected to be implicated in his testimony. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry: Agrizzi continues his testimony, who will be implicated? Angelo Agrizzi has revealed more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Agrizzi, Watson paid regular visits to Mokonyane's house, along with R50 000 #StateCaptureInquiry | Angelo Agrizzi continues to reveal more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Bosasa and #StateCapture | Here's what you need to know... Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Former Bossasa COO unpacks the bribes Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi on Thursday detailed the money trail allegedly used for bribing state entities. WATCH: Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson emerges as 'kingpin of bribes' Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson has emerged as the absolute kingpin in the Bosasa empire of bribes, intimidation and cold hard cash. WATCH: Bosasa spent between 'R4m and R6m a month' in cash bribes - Agrizzi at #StateCaptureInquiry Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. ANALYSIS | #StateCaptureInquiry: Unpacking Agrizzi's testimony Watch as News24 investigative journalist Kyle Cowen and journalist Jeanette Chabalala unpack former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi's revelations at the state capture commission.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.