Canny Maphanga Zimbabwe army blames brutality on impostors The army in Zimbabwe says "bogus elements" are responsible for beating and killing civilians - rather than the security forces. The country is in the midst of protests over massive fuel price rises. A school boy looks at a burning barricade during a shutdown demonstration in Bulawayo, Zimbabwe (Zinyange Auntony/Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Southern African Litigation Centre (SALC) is concerned by reports of alleged serious human rights violations and the commission of atrocities by the police, government armed forces and Zanu-PF members in Zimbabwe. "SALC has received credible reports that the police, government security forces and members of the Zanu-PF have been using live ammunition against its (Zimbabwe's) own citizens who have been peacefully protesting in exercise of their rights under the Constitution," it said. "There are credible reports that doctors have treated 78 confirmed cases of gunshot wounds," SALC said in a statement on Friday. This comes after reports of a violent crackdown in that country after nationwide protests sparked by a massive fuel price hike. Police detain leading Zimbabwe activist after protests Leading Zimbabwean activist Evan Mawarire is detained by police, taken from his house in a widening crackdown after anti-government protests. ALSO READ: WATCH: Zimbabwe's violent crackdown continues with reports of rapes SALC said it had also learnt that the police and government security forces were still allegedly using lethal force against citizens. "There is strong evidence suggesting that torture, extrajudicial killings, intimidation, raids on homes for suspected leaders of the protesters, indiscriminate traffic stops, displacement and arbitrary detentions are taking place on a daily basis in the country," the legal centre said. Rape allegations In addition, citizens who have been detained have not been allowed access to legal representation. "These reports point towards gross human rights violations and raise serious concerns that Zimbabwe government officials are committing serious international crimes including torture and crimes against humanity," SALC said. The organisation warned that should Zimbabwe fail to fulfil its obligation to investigate crimes allegedly committed by the police, security forces and Zanu-PF, the international community will intervene. News24 reported earlier on Friday that the violent crackdown continued as security forces were accused of rape during house-to-house searches. Poor and working-class residents of the capital city, Harare, are said to be locking themselves in at night. At least 12 people have reportedly been killed in the unrest and more than 300 have been wounded, scores having been shot, doctors and rights workers have said. Police spokesperson Charity Charamba said she had not received any reports of alleged incidents of rape. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Looting deals Zimbabwe's businesses another blow Shops in Zimbabwe have been hit by looting during violent economic protests. The country is suffering from a major fuel and cash shortage. Zimbabwean opposition attends funeral of protest victim Zimbabwe's opposition leader Nelson Chamisa attends the funeral of one of the victims of deadly protests over fuel price hikes. Internet blacked out in Zimbabwe amid crackdown Zimbabwe was under an internet blackout on Friday after authorities extended a communications ban to cover emails. Meanwhile, the United Nations is urging an end to a security crackdown on civilians triggered by days of deadly protests. Saskia O'Dono Zimbabwe activist Mawarire back in court Zimbabwean activist Evan Mawarire is back in court for a second day where to face charges of subverting the Zimbabwe government. Mawarire is accused of subverting a constitutional government and incitement to commit violence by posting videos on s... Zimbabwe activist in court for 'subversion' after protests Zimbabwean activist Evan Mawarire has appeared in court in Harare to face subversion charges as authorities crack down on anti-government protests in which doctors say 68 people suffered gunshot wounds. Zimbabweans arrested for fuel protests appear in court About 70 people arrested for protesting fuel price increases in Zimbabwe three days ago arrive at Harare Magistrate’s Court. The nationwide protests were triggered by President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s announcement that fuel prices were doubling - res... WATCH: Mnangagwa and and his gangster must leave Zimbabwe alone - Zimbabweans Protesters marched to the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria on Wednesday in solidarity with their families who've been affected by the total shutdown in Zimbabwe Zimbabwean police arrest activist pastor as fuel protests enter third day Armed Zimbabwean police arrested a political activist at his home on Wednesday (January 16), his lawyer said, the third day of protests against fuel price hikes as businesses and schools stayed closed and networks enforced a government internet shutd WATCH: Mnangagwa and and his gangster must leave Zimbabwe alone - Zimbabweans A number of protesters marched to the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria on Wednesday in solidarity with their families who've been affected by the total shutdown in Zimbabwe.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.