Mxolisi Mngadi President Cyril Ramaphosa. (Felix Dlangamandla, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The ANC is the only organisation in the country committed to improving the lives of the people, party president Cyril Ramaphosa said on Monday. He was speaking to residents of the Masinenge informal settlement in Marburg, on the lower south coast of KwaZulu-Natal. The ANC's national executive committee (NEC) was deployed on Monday across the province, ahead of the party's January 8 Statement celebrations and its manifesto launch rally at the Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban on Saturday. As expected, Ramaphosa was deployed to the province's lower south coast, as the region was one of his strongest backers ahead of the ANC's elective conference in December 2017. Most of the regions in the province wanted Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma to succeed the party's former president, Jacob Zuma. Before the president addressed the community of Masinenge, he visited the Masinenge Housing Project, where some of the shack dwellers have been given brand new RDP homes. "Their dignity has been restored. They can see, smell and touch the work that has been done by the ANC-led government," said Ramaphosa. The president promised his party would deliver on its promises and build a better future for the citizens of the country. #Ramaphosa has arrived at Masinenge on lower south coast of KZN for a community meeting. #ANC107 pic.twitter.com/5UYJByJapj  "It may take us some time, but we will be able to deliver because we are the only organisation in the country committed to improving the lives of our people," he said. He also called for unity in the party. "It's when we worked together that we were able to reach all the promises that we have delivered," he said. 'Victory is certain for us' Ramaphosa said January 8 was a very important day in the history of the ANC, "as it turns 107". "Many parties have been formed and have faded away, while the ANC still stands. From tomorrow (Tuesday) onwards, we will tell the people what the ANC will do to take the country forward and make it the best country in Africa. On Saturday, we will be setting out our plan for the country going forward when we launch our manifesto," he said. Ramaphosa also promised that the ANC-led government would create jobs this year "in order to improve the economy of the country". He was adamant that the ANC would win the upcoming national elections. "Victory is certain for us. We will win the elections, whether they like it or not. Progress and all the best things that our country can give the people can only be done when the ANC is in government," he said. Ramaphosa also conducted a door-to-door campaign in Merlewood, before going on a blitz at the Port Shepstone taxi rank. He also commended the region for performing well in matric. It was the second-best performing region in KwaZulu-Natal, according to Ramaphosa.  South Africa's ex-president just signed a record deal Former president Jacob Zuma, who is implicated in a major corruption scandal, has been given a taxpayer-funded record deal. Zuma on land: Less debate, more nationalisation Former President Jacob Zuma said there is too much debate about land expropriation without compensation to his liking, and suggested that land should be nationalised. 2017: WATCH: A News24 Festive Season special - politicians 'sing' Last Christmas Watch as South African politicians attempt to 'sing' pop duo Wham!'s 1984 hit single, Last Christmas. WATCH: ANC mourns the passing of Mendi Msimang - 'A giant tree has fallen' ANC pays tribute to struggle stalwart and its former treasurer-general Mendi Msimang following his passing at the age of 78. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. RUSSIA TRIP: 'I'm back' says David Mabuza; paid for own trip to get medical treatment Deputy President David Mabuza has emerged in Piet Retief, Mpumalanga, after he went to Russia for a routine medical trip after taking sick leave last month. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. LAND REFORM: The exact moment resolution to amend Constitution is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. WATCH: Singing in chamber as resolution that Constitution be amended is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. WATCH: 'We are not fighting the ANC' - Mahumapelo ahead of court appearance Former ANC North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo addresses supporters before fighting the NEC decision to disband his PEC at the South Gauteng High Court. WATCH: Dan Plato elected as Cape Town mayor Dan Plato has been elected as Cape Town's new executive mayor during a special council sitting on Tuesday. WATCH: ANC paints Joburg yellow demanding service delivery Hundreds of ANC members from greater Joburg – in collaboration with alliance partners Sanco, SACP and Cosatu – are marching to the offices of Mayor Herman Mashaba, Premier David Makhura and Eskom to hand over memorandums demanding service delivery WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. Outa, ANCGP and civil society groups march to union buildings against etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. Thousands marched through the streets of Tshwane on Friday morning. WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. WATCH: 'Pay back the money' - MP's jeer at EFF's Floyd Shivambu in ironic turn of events EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu found himself on the receiving end of MP's jeering in Parliament on Tuesday, when he was heckled to "pay back the money" during a debate on the VBS Mutual Bank scandal. WATCH: Police clash with marchers at ANC demonstration A scuffle ensued between a group wearing Sanco t-shirts and police after fireworks was allegedly fired during an ANC march on Friday to Premier David Makhura's office demanding service delivery.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.