Correspondent Cobie Rossouw who died on Thursday. (Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories While 59-year-old Cobie Rossouw's son was fighting a fire that has engulfed the Overstrand area, his mother was at her home, complaining of a tight chest, according to Netwerk24. Shortly after telling a friend who was visiting that she was struggling to breathe, Rossouw was dead. Her daughter-in-law, Carla, told News24's sister publication that the family was unsure of what the exact cause of Rossouw's death was, but it is suspected that she died of smoke inhalation. At the time of her death, Rossouw's son, Louis, who is a volunteer firefighter, was helping to fight the blaze. WATCH: Overstrand fire rages on Air support has been brought in to battle a large fire in the Overstrand area in the Western Cape. The fire has devastated areas close to Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els. Earlier on Thursday, Overstrand fire services and disaster management chief Lester Smith confirmed one death to News24. "Yes, one confirmed dead and SAPS and forensics will determine the cause," Smith told News24. Police also later confirmed the death. "This office can confirm that a 59-year-old woman who stayed in Elizabeth Road, Pringle Bay, passed away this morning at about 01:20," Captain FC van Wyk told News24. "A post-mortem will be conducted to determine the cause of death. An inquest case was registered for further investigation." Man arrested for arson Netwerk24 reported that three people were treated for smoke inhalation at the Mediclinic in Hermanus. A man is expected to appear in court on Monday, January 7, following his arrest on Thursday. It is alleged that he lit a flare on New Year's Eve, sparking the blaze. Fires have affected areas close to Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els. According to police, the 34-year-old man is facing charges of contravening the Nature Conservation Act – a charge more serious than arson. "We arrested the suspect for the fires. We've got witnesses also. We locked the suspect [up] at Kleinmond police station," Captain Harold Nqwenani told News24. Working on Fire tweeted on Thursday that the fire was not yet under control, but homes were still not in any danger.  #WOF_WC Status on the #BettysBayFire: Fire is not yet under control, but no homes are currently being threatened. A #WOFAviation Huey and 3 WOF teams are assisting local authorities on the fireline. #SavingLives #ProtectingTheEnvironment pic.twitter.com/ynpexYTgf9 @FDNY. #SouthAfrica. #BettysBayFire. Engine lost. pic.twitter.com/nLqS7MArs9 woke up at 4 am this morning to find out about all the damage this fire has caused. today i even visited a family friend’s house that had burnt down - so sad. also saw pictures of dead animals - some humans are disgusting. #bettysbay #BettysBayFire #pringlebay pic.twitter.com/83kDUqkX3X      WATCH: St Francis Bay residents evacuated over runaway fire The Kouga Municipality in the Eastern Cape has ordered residents of St Francis Bay to evacuate their homes due to a runaway fire currently burning down a number of houses in the area on Tuesday. Ten of California's Worst Disasters Earthquakes, floods, fire, crashes, and other catastrophes shaped and re-shaped California's environment throughout the 20th century. These are the 10 worst disasters that hit the Golden State. No recovery in Paradise after wildfire The Californian town of Paradise remains just rubble and ruins after a deadly and devastating wildfire burnt it to the ground. I would have saved my son if I knew he was in the house -  Hout Bay Mother I would have saved my son if I knew he was in the house -  Hout Bay Mother. Overstrand vuur nog buite beheer Lester Smith, brandweerhoof van die Overstrand-munisipaliteit se vuur is steeds buite beheer. Brand by Pringlebaai saai paniek. Brandbestryders het Donderdagoggend gespook om die wegholbrand wat op die berg bokant Pringlebaai woed, in bedwang te bring. WATCH: Used car dealership goes up in flames The New Year got off to a bad start for the owner of this used car dealership in Goodwood, Cape Town. 
Tony McGeer, owner of Mc Gee's Auto says he received a phone call in the early hours of January 2, alerting him to a fire at his dealership. WATCH: Train up in flames in Mayfair Two carriages of a passenger train caught fire at Mayfair Station, west of Johannesburg on Sunday. WATCH:  Fire rages out of control near Hermanus Firefighters from the Overstrand Municipality have spent the last 24 hours fighting an out of control fire about 10km from Hermanus in the Western Cape.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.