Jenni Evans (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Philippi East man shot and wounded two policemen before killing his girlfriend and himself as police closed in on his shack during a search for an illegal gun early on Friday morning, Western Cape police said. Spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Andrè Traut said police received a tip-off about an illegal firearm and went to a shack in Siyangena informal settlement. Members of the Nyanga Crime Prevention Unit made their way through the paths and as they approached the shack where they thought they would find the firearm, shots rang out. Two constables were wounded. Traut said the two were treated and taken to hospital where they are in a stable condition. As a result of the heightened danger, police surrounded the shack. Eventually, at 02:00, more shots were heard inside the shack. When police breached the man's home, they found that he had killed his girlfriend and himself. It is believed that she was in her 20s and he was in his 30s. Their names have not yet been released. Provincial commissioner, Lieutenant General Khombinkosi Jula, condemned the attack. "The attack on our members late last night during a police operation in Philippi East is condemned in the strongest possible terms," he said.  #sapsWC Attack on two #SAPS members during a police operation in Philippi East condemned by the Provincial Commissioner of the Western Cape. NP https://t.co/96c9PLkiOa pic.twitter.com/cvHxQ4qCcT  WATCH: Langa residents loot hijacked, abandoned truck Residents in Langa took advantage of a hijacked truck in Cape Town on Wednesday after stealing goods from the abandoned vehicle. WATCH: Quick-thinking motorist leaves hijackers empty-handed A video of a failed hijacking attempt in Johannesburg has surfaced on social media on Tuesday. WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. WATCH: Crash, booze, bang in Cape Town as nearly 12 000 litres of alcohol go down the drain City of Cape Town law enforcement officers popped open more than 16 000 liquor cans and bottles on Thursday as the City prepares for the upcoming festive season. WATCH: Conterfeit goods confiscated in by-law enforcement operation Thirteen bags of counterfeit goods valued at R700 000.00 was confiscated in Tshwane on Wednesday. WATCH: Durban thieves give up after relentless pursuit by security officers Two suspected thieves were arrested by Marshall Security after they tried to steal a vehicle from Musgrave Road in Berea, Durban. WATCH: Criminal snatches phone out of man's shirt pocket at restaurant A couple enjoying late afternoon lattes were left phone-less at the hands of a brash thief on Wednesday. 

Outdoor sections of restaurants have become hotspots for criminals to snag people's possessions. WATCH: Ramaphosa responds to the call for an intervention in Cape Flats gangsterism President Cyril Ramaphosa and Police Minister Bheki Cele formally launched the anti-gang unit in an effort to disorganise and disable the criminal economy linked to gangsterism in Hanover Park and surrounding areas. WATCH: Heavily armed gang steals R170 000 from supermarket A Pick n Pay supermarket in Sebokeng was robbed of an estimated R170 000 last Saturday. This after several armed men demanded keys to the safe from the manager of the outlet. WATCH | JHB crime stats: Drunk driving remains the city's most frequently recorded offence Drunk driving remains the highest offence in Johannesburg, according to the metro police latest statistics. WATCH: #WesternCapeShutdown: Over 250 people march to Parliament against gang violence Over 200 people marched from Keizergracht to Parliament and the Western Cape government provincial offices as part of the #WesternCapeShutdown against gang violence on Wednesday morning. WATCH: Police chopper corners home robber on N1 Motorists on the N1 south in Johannesburg, South Africa had their commute interrupted on Thursday as police flooded the motorway, to arrest a fleeing house robber. WATCH: Police arrest multiple suspects during drugs and stolen good raid Police arrested several suspects in a crime bust in Johannesburg on Thursday. WATCH. WATCH: Flash robbery at Krugersdorp, South Africa, supermarket A Krugersdorp supermarket was robbed of an undisclosed amount of money over the weekend. WATCH: Looters descend on cash-in-transit vehicle after Mpumalanga heist Another day and another cash-in-transit heist. This time, the suspects were filmed while in the act in Mpumalanga.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.