Duncan Alfreds An object spotted in the Western Cape sky. (Image via Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Social media users reacted with awe at a meteor that passed over the Western Cape on Wednesday night in loud, fiery fashion. People from Hermanus to Cape Town were amazed as a flash across the sky at about 20:00 culminated in a loud explosion. "The object was almost certainly a small meteor, most likely around a metre across when it entered the atmosphere. It is unlikely any fragments reached the ground," Dr Daniel Cunnama, science engagement astronomer at the South African Astronomical Observatory, told News24. "From just after 20:15 NSRI received multiple reports of a suspected flare sighting from multiple locations around the greater Cape Peninsula," the NSRI said in a statement. "Reports were received around the greater Cape Peninsula and beyond with reports from Hermanus, Kleinmond, Betty's Bay, Gordons Bay, False Bay, Simon's Town, Cape Point, Scarborough, Kommetjie to Sea Point, Table Bay and Bloubergstrand." READ: Multimillion-rand SA telescope to give astronomers new view of the night sky The organisation identified the object as a shooting star. Cunnama said it was unlikely that the object had hit land. "Such small objects pose very little danger and will disintegrate in the upper atmosphere. Larger objects over 10m to 20m are more likely to impact the ground, but the likelihood of them hitting land, or a human settlement, is still very small," said Cunnama. Residents who witnessed the incident all along the Southern Cape coast said there was a loud bang that "shook the windows" as the meteor ended its combustion run.  Unconfirmed possible meteor . Sightings in Hermanus, Cape Town, Brackenfell and Stellenbosch. Loud bang that shook windows. Natham Krumm @SABCnews @eNCAWeather @debeer_anika @ReenvalSA @CPowellWx @NetNuus_ZA @JacaNews @volksbladnuus @huisgenoot @MOBSERV pic.twitter.com/b9VQ7j6efC  Who else just saw that? 20:12 #capetown - Shooting #star? #meteorshower? #plane? Over century city in Durbanville direction @LifeisSavage ?  Anyone else see something on fire fall out the sky over #capetownSaw it plummeting down over the southern suburbs.  In 2013, a large object exploded in the sky over the Russian town of Chelyabinsk, injuring more than 400 people on the ground, News24 reported. However, experts concluded that the Chelyabinsk object was around 20m in size, much bigger than the small meteor that raced across the Cape skies. The next meteor shower is the Lyrids shower due on April 22, followed by the Eta Aquarids shower on May 5, though they are not easily visible from South Africa. "There are various meteor showers during the year, with much smaller objects entering the atmosphere, the best time is normally in the early hours of the morning, 02:00 to 06:00, and you need to look north," Cunnama said.   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Zille breaks ground on R3bn mixed-income residential project Western Cape Premier Helen Zille said the "pioneering" housing project expected at the site of the derelict old Conradie Hospital in Cape Town could "make or break" the current housing system. WATCH: Fire rescue Bambi trotting on the road to recovery At just a few months old, a rescued baby Cape Grysbok has touched the hearts of the many residents of the Cape overstrand area, which has recently been underthreat by a devastating fire for two weeks. WATCH: Betty's Bay fire victim shares heartbreaking experience of the blaze A Betty's Bay resident has spoken out about the trauma of losing her home in a fire that raged through the town at the weekend. WATCH: Xolobeni community members being chased away by the police after the consultation Members of the Eastern Cape community of Xolobeni were chased away by the police after the consultation WATCH: At least 31 houses destroyed in Overstrand wildfires; video shows devastation in Betty's Bay At least 31 houses have been completely destroyed and 28 partially damaged by wildfires on the coastal Overstrand region in the Western Cape. WATCH: Armed local farmer walks into demonstration in Greyton Western Cape police are probing an incident involving a man who was caught on camera on Monday, wielding a firearm during a demonstration in Greyton. WATCH: Man desperately tries to save beached dolphin When Paul Gardiner spotted a dolphin stranded on a beach in the Eastern Cape, he didn't think twice before trying to rescue the animal. Surveillance video shows deadly Syria blast Surveillance footage shows the moment of an explosion in Syria, on Wednesday, in the US-patrolled town of Manbij. Enjoying Orlando DW viewer Bob Smith shows his home town in Florida, from Lake Eola to the Orlando Eye to Seaworld, a theme park where you can stroke porpoises and feed stingrays. A road trip across Australia From Sydney to the Great Barrier Reef: impressions of a 2000-kilometer trip from Australia's biggest city to the world's biggest coral reef. College town mourns killing of rookie officer Just weeks on the Davis, California police force, 22-year-old Natalie Corona was shot and killed while investigating a traffic accident. The suspect was later found dead by apparent suicide. Mongolians bring yurts to second graft protest Thousands of Mongolians gather in Ulaanbaatar to protest graft and demand the resignation of the country's parliamentary speaker, with some erecting yurts in a city square and threatening to stay there on hunger strike. WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral. Trudeau asked about his favourite childhood toy at town hall Justin Trudeau was asked at a Regina town hall about his favourite childhood toy. The prime minister says he coincidentally gave the same kind of toy to his son Hadrien this past Christmas. Daughter of Italian mafia boss opens restaurant in Paris Her father Salvatore "Toto" Riina was one of the Sicilian mob's most famous godfathers, and now Lucia Riina has decided to open a restaurant named 'Corleone' in central Paris. The move has angered the mayor of the Italian town of the same name, an... Trudeau answers carbon tax question at Regina town hall Prime Minister Justin Trudeau defended his carbon tax plan at a town hall in Regina on Thursday, saying Saskatchewan families will be at least $200 better off under his government’s plan to put a price on carbon. Missing teen found alive, Wisconsin town rejoices 13-year-old Jayme Closs has been found in nortwest Wisconsin, authorities said Thursday. She had been missing since her parents were found killed in October. Authorities say a suspect is in custody. Missing 13-year-old girl found alive in Wisconsin A 13-year-old northwestern Wisconsin girl who went missing in October after her parents were killed has been found alive. Authorities say Jayme Closs was found in a rural town about an hour from her home. A suspect was taken into custody. WATCH: Cape pupil awarded for matriculating after surviving deadly fire Lance Minnies came close to losing his life in a deadly 2016 fire and almost gave up on his studies when he recovered. But it was the hope for a better future and the support of caring people at his school that pulled him through. Trump lands in Texas, heading for southern border President Donald Trump arrives at a Texas border town to make the case for his long-promised border wall after negotiations with Democrats blew up over his funding demands. WATCH: Two men who saved man from drowning on beach on New Year's Day say they aren't heroes Two young men put their own lives at risk to save a stranger from drowning on a Western Cape beach on New Year's Day. 
When Dewald van der Westhuizen (22)  and Hannes Swart (22) noticed a man in trouble, they swam to his aid, without thinking twice. Trudeau town hall gets heated over B.C. pipeline arrests Prime Minister Justin Trudeau faced tough questions from Indigenous audience members at a chaotic town hall in Kamloops, B.C. on Wednesday. The fiery exchanges came amid a high-profile pipeline blockade in northern B.C. WATCH: Lanseria baggage handler to be rewarded for doing a sterling job at the carousel Every single piece of luggage that rolls past Ephraim Sibeko on the carousel at Lanseria International Airport is carefully maneuvered to be right side up with the handle pointing outward. All you have to do, is step up and grab what's yours. Craftsmen in Panama start work on pope's wooden throne Carpenters in the Panamian town of Los Pozos start building the throne upon which Pope Francis will sit when he comes to the country for a visit later this month. WATCH: Anti-racism protest shuts down Bronkhorstspruit During a protest against racism in Bronkhorstspruit on Tuesday, where the entire central business district of the small town was shut down, the ANC Youth League in Tshwane have made a call expropriate land belonging to racist farmers. Cuba: Vintage autos glide through Havana as Classic Car Contest hits town Over 200 vintage and classic cars drove through the streets of Havana as part of the First Classic Car Contest, to foster the preservation of the historic vehicles.  The initiative was organised by Iberostar along with the 'Amigos de Fangio' organ... WATCH: Western Cape firefighters end gruelling day with uplifting song A group of firefighters returned to their base at the Crassula hall in Betty's Bay on Friday, with song and dance. Revellers in Colombia celebrate 'Devil's Carnival' Colombians take part in the Devil's Carnival in the western central town of Riosucio, a biennial festival that has its origins in the 19th Century. Johannesburg's grandest old colonial club seeks new image With its imposing columned facade, hunting trophies and oil portraits, the Rand Club in Johannesburg's city centre is a relic of South Africa's colonial and apartheid past. But Alicia Thompson, a black woman born in Johannesburg, is seeking to rep... South Africa's ex-president just signed a record deal Former president Jacob Zuma, who is implicated in a major corruption scandal, has been given a taxpayer-funded record deal. Karan, Arjun hail Ranveer's Gully Boy Asli hip-hop song Ranveer Singh's hip hop style rap in Gully Boy is being appreciated by the B-town celebriies.From Karan Johar to Arjun Kapoor, they all are praising the skill of talented actor. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. Muslim family maintains church in Pakistani mountains Standing in the mountainous Hazada District town of Nathia Gali is St. Matthew's Church, whose caretakers have passed down custodianship from generation to generation within a single Muslim family for over a century. WATCH: Overstrand fire rages on Air support has been brought in to battle a large fire in the Overstrand area in the Western Cape. The fire has devastated areas close to Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els. Varun, Jacqueline, Karisma returns after New Year celebrations After spending the New Year with their family and loved ones , B-town Celebs are back in the bay.Few were spotted in Mumbai airport with family and few came with their lovers. WATCH: Cape Town matrics beam after receiving IEB marks The young men and women exiting Reddam House Atlantic Seaboard in Cape Town on Thursday couldn't stop smiling when they saw that their hard work had paid off for the IEB national senior certificate exams. Mexican mayor killed hours after taking office Mayor Alejandro Aparicio of the southern Mexican state of Oaxaca was gunned down hours after taking office. WATCH: Used car dealership goes up in flames The New Year got off to a bad start for the owner of this used car dealership in Goodwood, Cape Town. 
Tony McGeer, owner of Mc Gee's Auto says he received a phone call in the early hours of January 2, alerting him to a fire at his dealership. Four injured after German man rams car into crowd A 50-year-old German man clearly intended to kill foreigners when he rammed his silver Mercedes into a crowd of people in a northwestern German town in the early hours of New Year's Day, injuring four, according to officials. Repentant Nasri 'blessed' to get second chance after doping ban Sami Nasri spoke candidly to his new club on Monday and admitted he is 'lucky to have a second chance' after joining West Ham United on the day he completed his doping ban. Heads will roll on the flour! Spaniards celebrate annual Day of Holy Innocents Spaniards charge into battle against one another in a mock coup on Holy Innocents’ Day. The revellers, known as Els Enfarinats, take over control of the small town of Ibi, while their opponents, the Casats i Fadrins, try to restore order in the to... Celebs bids goodbye to 2018 and welcomes 2019 Year 2019 is just a day ahead and B-town is all geared up for their celebrations. Few chose holidaying out , while few revisited the lanes of 2018 and welcomed 2019 with new resolutions. Ebola-hit Congolese town protests with mock vote Residents of an Ebola hotspot in eastern Congo stage a mock presidential election to show the authorities a decision to postpone the vote there due to health fears was unfounded. Turkish-backed Syrian fighters head to Manbij Turkish-backed Syrian fighters gather in the north of Aleppo province before heading to the Kurdish-controlled town of Manbij and areas East of the Euphrates river. David Warner 'suggested' ball-tampering - Cameron Bancroft Cameron Bancroft has revealed David Warner was the one to suggest he should tamper with the ball during Australia's notorious Test match in South Africa that saw him handed a nine-month ban. Bancroft's attempt to manipulate the ball in Cape Town w... People evacuate devastated Indonesia town fearing second tsunami Panicked residents tried to flee Sumber Jaya village as word spread that another tsunami was about to smash into the shattered Indonesian community. Chinese lantern festival lights up small French town The small town of Gaillac in southwestern France is illuminated by a Chinese lantern festival spread over 3.5 hectares.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.