Sharlene Rood WATCH: 'Knitwits for Madiba' - South Africans crochet their way to world record It took 737 "KnitWits for Madiba" 27 minutes of sheer "woolpower" to clinch their latest world record - for the most people crocheting simultaneously. The previous record of 604 people was held by the Singleton Crafters in Australia. It took 737 "KnitWits for Madiba" 27 minutes of sheer "woolpower" to clinch their latest world record - for the most people crocheting simultaneously. (67 Blankets ) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories It took 737 "KnitWits for Madiba" 27 minutes of sheer "woolpower" to clinch their latest world record - for the most people crocheting simultaneously. The previous record of 604 people was held by the Singleton Crafters in Australia. The event was held at the Linder Auditorium in Johannesburg on Sunday 27 January and was the group 67 Blankets for Nelson Mandela Day's fifth Guinness World Record attempt in five years. Carolyn Steyn, founder of the 67 Blankets initiative, told News24 that the record attempt had been organised to celebrate the fifth anniversary of the initiative. "Not only did it serve as an incentive, encouraging our 'KnitWits for Madiba' to make lots of blankets with a clear and fun goal - it also brought attention to our movement and helped attract new membership," Steyn said. All of the documentation had been sent through to the Guinness World Records head office in London, and Steyn said they hoped to have it ratified within the next few weeks. The event coincided with the birthday of Mozart (born in 1756) and, while the KnitWits were crocheting up a storm, maestro Richard Cock conducted musicians in performing a selection of Mozart works. 'In this fight for freedom, our sword is the crochet hook' Sheila Marriott, affectionately known as Granny Sheila, made her way from Port Elizabeth to participate in the record attempt. The 82-year-old started crocheting at the age of 46 and, when she bumped into someone on the day who had never crocheted before, she taught her on the spot. "I taught her on the day, but it was easy for me, having taught children before," she said. Marriott works with the children in her community, teaching them to knit and crochet. She has made and donated countless blankets and scarves to the 67 Blankets initiative. "Carolyn Steyn started something magical and I am privileged to be a part of it," Marriott said. Ruth Ely, 47, a 67 Blankets ambassador, flew in from Cape Town to attend the event. "The atmosphere on the day was electric," Ely said. She had asked her mother to make a black and white ripple blanket with music notes in the lead up to the day. Ely added a crochet border to this blanket during the event and was able to donate it to the initiative afterward. "In this fight for freedom, our sword is the crochet hook. We are making a visual difference, sharing ideas, building a community together," she said.  WATCH: Cape nursery launches dagga growing kits A Cape Town garden centre says it's received unprecedented interest from prospective growers since launching its cannabis starter kits last week. Watch. WATCH: 'Give me a tender' - sings satirical 'Elvis' on Bosasa scandal The much-talked about Bosasa scandal has gripped South Africa over the past week since former chief-operating officer Angelo Agrizzi blew the whistle on bribery and corruption. WATCH: This race horse just sold for a cool R4 million This year's top seller at the Cape Premier Yearling Sale was an unnamed filly that sold for R4 million from the Klawervlei Stud farm located in Breede River outside Bonnievale, Western Cape. WATCH: What makes a champion race horse? The next generation of champion race horses is up for auction at the Cape Premier Yearling Sale where buyers are prepared to part with millions, but it may be a very expensive gamble. WATCH: Two men who saved man from drowning on beach on New Year's Day say they aren't heroes Two young men put their own lives at risk to save a stranger from drowning on a Western Cape beach on New Year's Day. 
When Dewald van der Westhuizen (22)  and Hannes Swart (22) noticed a man in trouble, they swam to his aid, without thinking twice. WATCH: Man desperately tries to save beached dolphin When Paul Gardiner spotted a dolphin stranded on a beach in the Eastern Cape, he didn't think twice before trying to rescue the animal.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.