Thembela Ntongana, GroundUp Classmates Lwando Melamane (left) and Aphida Jabe (right) achieved six and four distinctions respectively and will both study engineering at UCT this year. (Thembela Ntongana, GroundUp) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories "I knew what I wanted and I was willing to put in the hard work to get it," Masiphumelele High School matriculant Lwando Melamane told GroundUp. Melamane matriculated as the top student in his school, getting distinctions in Maths, Physical Sciences, Life Sciences, Geography, Life Orientation and Xhosa. He was also just two percent shy of getting a distinction for English. "When I was in Grade 10, I was not doing so well but there were three students in my class that were so clever. I told myself that is where I want to be," said Melamane. "I was not reaching them until I pushed myself to work harder." Melamane was raised by a single mother who works for Pick n Pay. She said she knew her son was going to pass but did not expect him to do so well. He used to live with his mother in a two-room shack next to a tavern but later moved to his uncle in a much quieter part of Masiphumelele. "I did not like living far from my mom but I couldn't study there because the house is small and it is next to a tavern so it was always noisy," said Melamane. READ: This top Khayelitsha matriculant walked two hours from school, cooked supper and then did her homework He has been accepted to study mechanical engineering at the University of Cape Town (UCT) and was accepted at three other universities. "Mechanical engineering is my first love. It is what I have always wanted and to be accepted at one of the best universities in the country is a dream come true," said Melamane. His classmate and study partner Aphinda Jabe obtained distinctions in Maths, Physical Sciences, Xhosa and Life Orientation. She has been accepted at UCT to study chemical engineering. "I am very happy that my hard work paid off… I want to make something of myself and my marks give me the opportunity to do that. I can now become what I want to be. I always wanted to make medicine and create something that will improve other people's lives," said Jabe. Curriculum backlog due to gang violence Principal Mncedi Nelson Mafrica told GroundUp that even though the 57.5% pass rate was not high, it was better than what they expected. The school had embarked on a turnaround campaign after a massive drop in the matric pass rate from 71% in 2016 to 48% in 2017. The campaign was to change the 48% to 84% in the following school year. It did not reach its target, achieving a pass rate of 57.5% in 2018. Mafrica said last year's matric class had the challenge of catching up with their peers after a "massive curriculum backlog" in 2016 due to disruptive gang violence in the area, which some of the pupils were involved in. This also resulted in poor class attendance. ALSO READ: Western Cape achieved top spot in 'real matric pass rate' - MEC "In the September 2018 trial results, our pass rate was in the bottom forties and we had to come up with ways to make sure we improved in the final term. We did camps where the students slept at the school even during the exams," said Mafrica. He added that the school received support from the Department of Education in 2017, which ended in 2018 due to the improved pass rate. "I feel like that support should have at least continued for three years and stopped once the school is in a better position. One year is not much. The support is still needed," he said. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. SA's top matriculant missed half the school year due to a rare disease After missing almost six months of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker managed to nab the coveted spot of SA's best matriculant. From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg. Revision, staying active, working hard: Cream of 2018 matric crop share their insights Some of the 2018 National Senior Certificate (NSC) top achievers say that they remain anxious on how well they have done ahead of the results being announced at Midnight on Thursday. Head boy and top achiever ready to 'get his future started' King David High School Linksfield's 2017 head boy, who earned seven distinctions in the IEB matric exams, has some advice for those entering their matric year. Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Here are the alternate avenues to explore if your matric results weren't ideal Here are the alternate avenues to explore of your matric results weren't ideal Matric pass rate should be at 100% - Wits professor Wits professor Marissa Rollnick says a matric pass rate of 100% is achievable. 'Consistency was key for me' - Rebecca Haines, top matric mathematics achiever Top matric mathematics achiever Rebecca Haines from Rustenburg High School For Girls in Cape Town says her excellent results came down to working consistently. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. 'I strategised; I had a timetable and I stuck to it' - top matric achiever Mapula Sebati Thousands of matrics throughout the country will know their individual results on Wednesday. However, the top achievers for the class of 2015 were celebrated on Tuesday after the official announcement by Minister of Education, Angie Motshekga. Top SA matric says his rare disease motivated him to study medicine this year After missing almost two terms of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker still managed to be the overall top achiever of 2015. WATCH: You have a second chance to ace matric Universities across the country are about to open up their doors. Although the national pass rate was 71. 5%, many students did not obtain the necessary results to get them into institutions of higher learning. 'The bigger plan is to become president,' says top matric performer Tumelo Mashigo, part of the class of 2017, hopes to one day be president.

The 18-year-old was the second best performing learner with special needs among the most recent matriculants and hopes to make the world a better place one day. WATCH: 5 tips to acing your matric exams Matric examination got underway on Monday across the country. Here are a few tips for A+ results.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.