Inga Mbambisa WATCH: Suspects run for cover after heavy fire from security officers disrupts armed robbery Two Chinese nationals and their driver were robbed of R23 000 along the M2 near the Main Reef Road exit in Johannesburg on Tuesday. Two Chinese nationals and their driver were robbed of R23 000 along the M2, near the Main Reef Road exit in Johannesburg, on Tuesday.

The three had been travelling to the city from Middelburg in Mpumalanga at about 10:00 when a white Ford Ranger bakkie blocked their vehicle.

 (yusuf abramjee) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Two Chinese nationals and their driver were robbed of R23 000 along the M2, near the Main Reef Road exit in Johannesburg, on Tuesday. The three had been travelling to the city from Middelburg in Mpumalanga at about 10:00 when a white Ford Ranger bakkie blocked their vehicle. According to Johannesburg Central police spokesperson, Constable Constance Lelimo, several men jumped out of the bakkie and ordered the three at gunpoint to get out of their vehicle. "Security officers who happened to be in the vicinity fired a number of shots at the suspects and they fled the scene.'' No injuries were reported and a case of armed robbery and attempted murder had been opened. No arrests have been made. 'That's hogwash!'- Pule Mabe on accusations of intimate relationship with former PA ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe, who is currently on leave from that role pending the outcome of the inquiry of sexual harassment claims, strongly denied claims that he and his former assistant had an intimate relationship of sorts in the past. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). WATCH: Grade 1 pupil gets ready for big school Starting Grade 1 is a big step for little ones. For Luca (6), getting ready for school took quite some time on Wednesday morning, but he soon got into the swing of things. WATCH: Masturbating Mr D driver dismissed after video goes viral Masturbating Mr D driver dismissed after video goes viral. From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg. Charcoal challenge takes Facebook by storm posing the question: 'is it racist?' A bizarre new social media challenge that sees participants turning their heads black by inverting a bag of charcoal over their heads, has raised eyebrows online.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.