Tshidi Madia ANC head of presidency acting national spokesperson Zizi Kodwa is seen. (Felix Dlangamandla, Gallo Images, Netwerk24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The ANC echoed the sentiments of Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo that the work of the state capture commission of inquiry should not be undermined. Zondo issued a stern warning on Tuesday over media reports that were based on leaked information. It followed a complaint from Environmental Affairs Minister Nomvula Mokonyane's lawyers that her rights, along with those who were listed in stories by journalists over the weekend, had been infringed. OVERVIEW: Bosasa officials destroyed evidence to cover up corruption, Agrizzi tells #StateCaptureInquiry Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi implicated Mokonyane as having received numerous gifts and monthly payments of R50 000. Her lawyers sent a letter to the commission, saying she felt "betrayed" by the commission. "Our client has a legitimate expectation that the commission would take reasonable steps and exercise a duty of care to safeguard information in its custody, in particular in circumstances where our client has been denied the right flowing from Rule 3.3 of the commission," they wrote. "It was indeed a travesty of justice that evidence not led before the commission, with a list of names, some of which were generated was published," ANC acting spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said during a media briefing at the party's Luthuli House headquarters. Integrity of the commission Kodwa said the act was prejudicial and undermined the integrity of the commission. "Remember, although proceedings are not of a criminal nature, the commission works on a basis of a principle of fairness," he said to journalists. Asked whether any action would be taken against those implicated so far, or whether they would be asked to step aside for a while, Kodwa said "no". "We can't on the basis of one version from one witness infer guilt." He said it was possible for numerous versions on one issue to follow. "We are refusing to do running commentary of a witness on a testimony that is not cross-examined, testimony that has not been corroborated or collaborated with… then we take it as gospel truth." The party's secretary general, Ace Magashule, warned against treating the commission as a court of law where one was given an opportunity to present themselves and said the two were very different and people needed to "tread" carefully in this regard. "We respect its work, let's give it time to do its work," said Magashule. He said it should hear all sides so it produces a just and fair outcome. The ANC also refused to divulge if Mokonyane and other controversial ministers, such as Bathabile Dlamini, would make it back to Parliament on behalf of the party after the elections. Lindiwe Zulu, who is a national executive committee member, said the ANC would make its list public when it was ready to do so. She said the names on the party's list to serve in the National Assembly or provincial legislatures were selected by the ANC's branches and the party's national list committee relied on numerous principles to narrow it down. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Agrizzi details unfair advantage given to Bosasa to secure 'one of the biggest' tenders Former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi is on the stand for the fifth day at the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry: Agrizzi continues his testimony, who will be implicated? Angelo Agrizzi has revealed more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Agrizzi claims he packed R50 000 a month for Minister Mokonyane Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi told the Zondo Commission that the company catered for ANC rallies and paid for the ruling party's birthday cake. Agrizzi was testifying about the relationship between Bosasa and Cabinet minister Nomvula Mokonyana WATCH: Agrizzi, Watson paid regular visits to Mokonyane's house, along with R50 000 #StateCaptureInquiry | Angelo Agrizzi continues to reveal more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan wraps up his testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day3 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan wrapped up his testimony at the judicial inquiry into state capture sitting in Johannesburg on Wednesday. Watch. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan wraps up his testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day3 / Part1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan wrapped up his testimony at the judicial inquiry into state capture sitting in Johannesburg on Wednesday. Watch. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan continues testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day2 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan faced intimidation and victimisation for refusing to be party to state capture, the judicial inquiry into state capture headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo heard on Monday. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan continues testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day2 / Part1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan faced intimidation and victimisation for refusing to be party to state capture, the judicial inquiry into state capture headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo heard on Monday. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day1 / Part3) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day1 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.