Riaan Grobler Harmony Gold mine. (Gallo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A mine worker died following a fall at the Phakisa gold mine near Welkom on Tuesday morning. "Harmony Gold Mining Company Limited regrets to advise that one of its employees was fatally injured following a fall of ground incident at its Phakisa mine (Tshepong Operations), in Welkom," the company said in a brief statement. According to Harmony, an investigation into the accident is under way to determine the cause. ALSO READ: Harmony Gold miner killed in underground accident "Management wish to express their deepest condolences to the deceased employee's family, friends and colleagues," the statement read. In May last year, Harmony Gold confirmed that a mine worker had died at its Moab Khotsong mine near Orkney, in the North West. In March last year, two people were killed following a "seismic related fall" at one of Harmony Gold's mines in Welkom. ALSO READ: Miner dies in Kusasalethu mine accident Former mineral resources minister Mosebenzi Zwane urged mines to step up health and safety efforts after three miners died at a Harmony Gold mine in August 2017. He said at the time he was concerned with accidents in the industry. He called for a prioritisation of safety, saying government would regularly conduct inspections.  WATCH: Chaos as Xolobeni meeting ends in hail of stun grenades Chaos erupted in Xolobeni in the Eastern Cape at the end of a "consultation" meeting between the community and Minister of Mineral Resources Gwede Mantashe on Wednesday afternoon. WATCH: Rural community wins right to reject mining on their land The Pretoria High Court has ruled that the minister of mineral resources will have to get consent from the Xolobeni community prior to granting mining rights on their land. WATCH: NUM challenges government to save jobs at Optimum mine The National Union of Mine Workers marched to the Union Buildings on Wednesday to demand that government intervention in Tegeta's business rescue process. WATCH: Joburg security guard wounded in shootout with armed robbery suspects A security guard was shot and wounded as he investigated a suspected business robbery on the corner of Prichard and Mooi Streets in Johannesburg last Saturday afternoon. WATCH: Video shows razed homes after fire sweeps through Hartenbos, Mossel Bay Two houses have been destroyed in a blaze in Mossel Bay's Hartenbos Heuwels. WATCH: Residents cry for help as man shot dead in Durban road A 32-year-old male suspect will appear in court on a charge of murder on Tuesday after a video shows Chatsworth community members crowding around a dead body in the street.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.