Sarah Evans Mzwanele Manyi (Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former owner of The New Age and ANN7 Mzwanele Manyi is set to announce his "new political home" this week, with speculation rife that he will leave the ANC. Manyi, a former government spokesperson, made the announcement on Twitter on Saturday night, saying he would be holding a press briefing on Wednesday at 14:00 in Johannesburg. Manyi now calls himself the founding president of the "Decolonisation Foundation". In another tweet on Saturday night, he alluded to what could be behind his move to a new political home.  I love PEACE.But I don't take kindly to being provoked.#Decolonisation2019 There is also speculation that Manyi’s decision follows a falling out with ANC members. Basic education ministry spokesperson Troy Martens said Manyi had left their ANC branch’s WhatsApp group after he was pushed for “explanations”.  So he, @MzwaneleManyi left our branch Whatsapp group, after pressure of all cdes asking for explanations! I guess he will join a new Whatsapp group in his new “political home”. Well let’s hope he takes those who promote factionalism with him! pic.twitter.com/J3A47zQmmF  Manyi is known for his support of former president Jacob Zuma and the Gupta family, having acquired the family’s media assets in 2017. Manyi’s announcement received much criticism on social media. Former Cope leader Mbhazima Shilowa said Manyi had previously said critics of political organisations should change it from the inside. Manyi asked for proof that he had said this.  A screenshot or any reference where I said this would assist. https://t.co/Zi58rNrmyi  At first, Manyi’s tweet elicited disbelief, with some pointing out that Manyi had always been very loyal to the ANC.  Can you believe it.....? This I cant believe. Manyi is one of the most fanatically stoic ANC members I have ever known. Often qouting chapter and Verse of ANC constitution to any mild dissenter. His departure must be fake news  Some speculated that Manyi was making the move to secure enough seats to earn a salary in Parliament.  Jimmy Manyi is no fool, he just need 50 000 votes to secure a seat in parliament.  His announcement was also met with cynicism, who drew parallels between Manyi and former SABC COO Hlaudi Motsoeneng’s announcement that he would start his own party, called the African Content Movement.  An interesting observation is that those who were campaigning to be in the ANC NEC pre-Nasrec (Hlaudi, Manyi etc.) are now all of a sudden forming their own political formations ??  But for the most part, Manyi’s tweet was met with humour.  Bo Manyi just can't let go. And who in their right mind would vote for a party led by Jimmy Manyi? This country is a sitcom.   I can't believe uMzanele Manyi made us wait for an announcement to tell us he'll be making an announcement.?? pic.twitter.com/Ek6k2KMUVH   Manyi left the ANC WhatsApp group. I mean, literally. pic.twitter.com/wFcsfqP1by    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.