Jeanette Chabalala Former SAA chairperson Dudu Myeni. (File photo: Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture has resumed with its first session of 2019. Watch live.

WATCH Former South African Airways board chairperson Dudu Myeni allegedly handed confidential NPA documents to ex-Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi and Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson during a meeting at a hotel in Pretoria. This was revealed at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture on Wednesday. LIVE: Ex- Bosasa COO Agrizzi testifies at state capture inquiry Agrizzi, who is testifying before inquiry chairperson Justice Raymond Zondo, is expected to blow the whistle on corruption. READ: Dirty details of Bosasa's 'empire of bribes' to be exposed at Zondo commission Head of legal team Paul Pretorius told Zondo that according to an affidavit by lead investigator Frank Dutton, Agrizzi and Watson met with an individual at the Sheraton Hotel in Pretoria on September 23, 2015. "At the meeting confidential NPA documents were handed to Agrizzi and Watson by Ms Dudu Myeni. The documents were photographed and returned to Myeni, but the pictures are part of the evidence bundle," Pretorius said. Pretorius said investigators managed to confirm that the pattern on the carpet in the pictures matches the carpet at the Sheraton Hotel and that Myeni had stayed at the hotel on that day. Pretorius also told Zondo that Agrizzi has been warned by a member of the media that his life is in danger, and the threats have been reported to the Hawks. Agrizzi is currently testifying before the commission. - Follow the live stream here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Pravin will destroy Eskom and SAA in order to privatise them - EFF The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) staged a picket outside the State Capture Inquiry on Monday calling for the removal of Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Public Enterprises. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan wraps up his testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day3 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan wrapped up his testimony at the judicial inquiry into state capture sitting in Johannesburg on Wednesday. Watch. WATCH: 'Pravin lied to our people' – EFF While Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg on Monday, the EFF made its presence known, protesting outside the venue. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan wraps up his testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day3 / Part1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan wrapped up his testimony at the judicial inquiry into state capture sitting in Johannesburg on Wednesday. Watch. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan continues testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day2 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan faced intimidation and victimisation for refusing to be party to state capture, the judicial inquiry into state capture headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo heard on Monday. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan continues testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day2 / Part1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan faced intimidation and victimisation for refusing to be party to state capture, the judicial inquiry into state capture headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo heard on Monday. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day1 / Part3) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day1 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day 1/Part 1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH: Barbara Hogan testifies at state capture inquiry (Part 5) Former minister of public enterprises Barbara Hogan on Monday gave testimony at the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. WATCH: Barbara Hogan testifies at state capture inquiry (Part 4) Former minister of public enterprises Barbara Hogan on Monday gave testimony at the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. WATCH: Barbara Hogan testifies at state capture inquiry (Part 3) Former minister of public enterprises Barbara Hogan on Monday gave her testimony at the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. WATCH: Barbara Hogan testifies at state capture inquiry (Part 2) Former minister of public enterprises Barbara Hogan on Monday gave testimony at the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. WATCH: Barbara Hogan to testify at state capture inquiry (part 1) Former minister of public enterprises Barbara Hogan will on Monday begin her testimony at the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.