Tammy Petersen Minister Bheki Cele in Bonteheuwel (Tammy Petersen, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Police minister Bheki Cele faced the ire of Cape Flats community members who demanded to know why he visited and sympathised with the family of a suspected gang leader. Ahead of a community meeting in Bonteheuwel on Tuesday, Cele drove through the gang-ridden neighbourhood, stopping in Taaibos Street where three people, who were killed in separate shootings on Sunday, lived. A 54-year-old man had been gunned down at about 06:35 and was taken to hospital where he later died. At the meeting, an irate Nadia Mayman of the Joint Peace Forum confronted Cele. She said it "grieves our community" that he sympathised with the man's family. "You visited the family of the enemy of Bonteheuwel. He was one of the people who placed guns in our youth's hands and instructed them to go and shoot," Mayman said. "But the minister saw it appropriate to go and give his condolences at his house, to his family. Why? They disrespect us time and time again." READ: Three dead in separate 'gang-related' shootings in Cape Town However, Cele countered that he was at the crime scene and it was "not to visit the alleged gangster". "It doesn't matter who is killed, or how I or a community feels about the person. The police have the responsibility to arrest, no matter who [the victim is]." Frustrated parents voiced concerns about the area not having its own police station and of having insufficient or incompetent police officers to tend to their complaints. Henrietta Abrahams of Total Shutdown said locals were tired of feeding intelligence to the police and putting their lives on the line when they weren't seeing the results. Total Shutdown led an anti-crime protest in Bonteheuwel in September which led to the arrest of eight people for public violence following run-ins with police. Last year, the group requested a "working class summit" to discuss the issues facing their neighbourhood at a formal workshop, and demanded an update to their appeal. Cele, however, encouraged them to settle on a date and his office would take care of the details. DA councillor in Bonteheuwel, Angus McKenzie, said Cele's visit was an exercise in "pouring honey on all our lips" and was akin to an "ANC rally" ahead of elections. "There were no local government representatives present, or provincial government, let alone the councillor of the area. "[This is] a serious indictment on how serious certain community members and the Minister of Police takes the crime situation in Bonteheuwel," he charged. McKenzie called for the Bonteheuwel police station to be better resourced and for the Anti-Gang Unit to up its game in the embattled area. WATCH: Bheki Cele visits family of Gift of the Givers volunteer killed in gang shooutout Police Minister Bheki Cele paid a visit to the family of Ameerodien Noordien, the Gift of the Givers volunteer who was killed in gang crossfire in Hanover Park, Cape Town. WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. WATCH: Gift of the Givers brings Christmas cheer to families of slain police officers Gift of the Givers and Minister Bheki Cele brought Christmas cheer to families of slain police officers on Tuesday.
The families of the 96 officers killed in the line of duty in 2018 were given food parcels and wheelchairs. WATCH: Ramaphosa responds to the call for an intervention in Cape Flats gangsterism President Cyril Ramaphosa and Police Minister Bheki Cele formally launched the anti-gang unit in an effort to disorganise and disable the criminal economy linked to gangsterism in Hanover Park and surrounding areas. CCTV of man who admits stabbing ex-girlfriend to death in car park Kent Police release CCTV footage of Joshua Stimpson, who has admitted stabbing his ex-girlfriend, Molly McLaren, to death in a shopping centre car park but denies murder. Brothers, two and six, killed by 'drunk' hit-and-run driver Two young brothers have been killed in a hit-and-run horror crash, police said.

The boys aged two and six died after being struck by a car in Coventry on Thursday afternoon. Thousands attend funerals of men who died in police pursuit crash Thousands of people have attended the funerals of four young men who died when their car collided with a tree while being pursued by the police. Car hood hampers getaway for robbery suspects Police in Texas have arrested a group of people suspected in a series of bank robberies after the hood on the car they were using to flee authorities popped up and covered the windshield, obscuring the road. Charged and Disbarred - Part 6 Sylvia Stolz is a German lawyer convicted of denying the Holocaust. $5M bail set for suspect in murder-abduction case A Wisconsin judge has set bail at $5 million for the suspect in the abduction of 13-year-old Jayme Closs and the killing of her two parents.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.