Jenni Evans WATCH- Aerial footage shows Lion's Head fire aftermath Aerial footage shows Lion's Head fire aftermath taken from one of the Working on fire Helicopters Smoke seen over Signal Hill from a fire that flared up on Monday after burning over the weekend. (Annelize Smit) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A flare-up on Cape Town's Signal Hill Road had firefighters scrambling again on Monday afternoon but it was quickly contained, according to Philip Prins, spokesperson for Table Mountain National Park. "We just had a flare-up now on Signal Hill Road, between the karamat (shrine) and the scout camp," Prins said mid-afternoon. "There were two helicopters and ground crews on the scene. The fire is contained now again. "Luckily, there is not much wind." WATCH: Fire engulfs Lion's Head Families living in Sea Point, Cape Town evacuated their homes on Sunday evening as the flames that engulfed the lower slopes of Lion's Head near Quarry Hill were coming down on them. READ: Cape Town fire: Seriously injured man rescued by firefighters Firefighters have worked since Sunday night to put out the main blaze that torched about 160 hectares of land between Signal Hill and Lion's Head, which comprises mainly fynbos. On Monday, crews were spread across the area, damping down smoky areas and flames licking out of charred fallen trees. One man was found to have sustained 45-degree burns on his upper bod. Firefighters found him. He was treated and taken to hospital. However, no sooner had that flare up been contained, than another occurred near a row of pine trees close to a favourite paragliding spot. City of Cape Town fire spokesperson Theo Layne said flare ups were to be expected throughout the day, which is why their crews are on the ground hosing charred areas down. "It will come and go in different severity," said Layne. "We've also still go the helicopters there," he added of the water-bombing aerial team. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.