Jan Gerber Patricia de Lille announcing the formation of a new political party in Cape Town. (Jan Gerber, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Patricia de Lille's new party is good to go and will "robustly" compete in this year's elections. It will announce the party's new leaders at its head office in, you guessed it, Goodwood, Cape Town, this weekend. After her acrimonious split with the DA, De Lille announced in early December that she would launch a new party, Good, to contest the 2019 national and provincial elections in all nine provinces. "I asked the good people of South Africa to step forward to help me build a movement based on values such as truth, trust, equity, solidarity and service," reads a statement from De Lille. She said the party had made not good, but "excellent" progress since. 'It's time for a new political order' - De Lille announces new political party Former Cape Town mayor and DA member Patricia de Lille says she is ready to serve her country under a new political movement. "We have opened a national head office in Goodwood in Cape Town which has become the nerve centre of our national operations. "Staff, and volunteers, at our head office have been processing tens of thousands of membership applications, and pledges of support, and we are creating a nationwide database of South Africans who enthusiastically embrace our vision and who have responded to my call. Policy conference "We have finalised our registration as a political party with the [Electoral Commission of South Africa] (IEC). The IEC notified us this week that Good has been registered and that registration is now subject to a 30-day appeal period. "We are now preparing for the competitive 2019 elections which we plan to contest robustly." Later this week, the party's first national leadership committee will be established and it will host a policy conference over the weekend with delegates from across the country. "The policy conference will deliberate and debate the policy positions we have been developing under the four policy themes that underpin our movement: social justice, spatial justice, economic justice and environmental justice." On Sunday after the policy conference, the composition of the national leadership committee and adopted policy decisions will be announced. "I wish to thank the many thousands of South Africans who have reached out to me, and to our movement, and I pledge to them that we will not abuse or take their support for granted," said De Lille.  WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. Patricia de Lille on her lowest time in her politics career The past 18 months have seen battle royal in the DA in Cape Town, which reached a turning point on Wednesday when Patricia de Lille resigned as mayor and DA member amid a criminal investigation against her. WATCH: Protesters to Ramaphosa: Give us the money you give to the buffalo The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) and other trade unions took to the streets in Cape Town on Thursday to protest against police brutality and low wages. WATCH: Patricia de Lille talks about her future and her journey as Cape Town mayor Her battle with the DA was like an abusive relationship, Patricia de Lille says. And the best decision when caught in such a situation is to walk away, "because it's not going to change". WATCH: Political parties say they are ready for the coming elections Political parties say that they are ready for the coming elections. Speaking to News24 at the IEC elections launch at the Gallagher Convention Centre, the leaders also urged those eligible to vote to go register on January 26 and 27. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: DA leader Mmusi Maimane talks Solly Msimanga's future in the DA Although DA leader Mmusi Maimane refuses to commit to a number, when it comes to the party's ambitions ahead of the general elections next year, he makes it clear he has his eyes set on Gauteng. WATCH: Dan Plato elected as Cape Town mayor Dan Plato has been elected as Cape Town's new executive mayor during a special council sitting on Tuesday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.