Sarah Evans iStock Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Pretoria has backed a call by the Southern African Development Community (SADC) for the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) to consider a proposal to form a government of national unity. This follows elections in the DRC - the results of which were announced on Thursday. On Saturday, the presidential runner-up Martin Fayulu filed a challenge to the election results in the DRC’s constitutional court, claiming that former president Joseph Kabila had done a backroom deal with the declared winner, opposition leader Felix Tshisekedi, the Associated Press reported. Fayulu’s decision to do so was applauded by international relations and cooperative governance minister Lindiwe Sisulu at a press briefing on Sunday. While she would not be drawn on allegations that the election results were fraudulent, calling questions from reporters on this mere allegations, Sisulu said the DRC’s constitution allowed for such a legal challenge. As such, it should be welcomed, she said. Also on Sunday, Sisulu was at pains to point out that South Africa did not want to prescribe to the DRC about what next steps it should take. But if the DRC decided to take this route, South Africa had experience in this regard, having formed its own government of national unity at the end of apartheid, she said. Doing so had been a difficult "pill to swallow", she said, but it had ultimately been the right decision. Sisulu said accusations had flown in, "fast and furious", that South Africa had been "quiet" on the DRC question since the election. She said the country was not able to state its position publicly until the United Nations Security Council had discussed the issue, as South Africa had asked for that discussion to be postponed. It had now taken place. She said the DRC should be "congratulated" for holding a peaceful election, considering the country’s violent past and the fact that over 600 political parties participated. This was the first "comprehensive" election since the DRC gained independence, Sisulu said. After the press briefing, Sisulu's department forwarded a statement on Sunday from Zambian president Edgar Chagwa Lungu, who said the SADC wanted all political leaders to consider a "negotiated political settlement", "given the strong objections to the provisional results" of the DRC elections. Speaking in his capacity as chairperson of the SADC organ on politics, defence and security, Lungu said he had spoken to the leaders of SADC and the International Conference of the Great Lakes Region. "SADC draws the attention of Congolese politicians to similar arrangements that were very successful in South Africa, Zimbabwe and Kenya where governments of national unity created the necessary stability for peace," said Lungu. "SADC therefore encourages all parties to enter into a political process towards a government of national unity in order to enhance public confidence, build bridges and reinforce democratic institutions of government and electoral process for a better Congo." SADC had taken note of objections to the election results by the Roman Catholic Church in the DRC, the Lamuka opposition coalition and other observers, and said a recount would "provide the necessary assurance" to all parties. Asked if it would be correct to say that South Africa thus agreed with SADC's position on the proposal to consider a national unity government, Sisulu's spokesperson Ndivhuwo Mabaya said yes. "SA agrees with SADC on the proposal for DRC political parties and the political roleplayers to consider a negotiated settlement as an option and this will include a government of national unity," he said via text message. DR Congo refugees find sanctuary in Uganda The crisis in the Democratic Republic of Congo has produced millions of refugees, more than Syria, Yemen or Iraq. Celebrations as opposition's Tshisekedi wins DR Congo election People celebrate in Kinshasa after the Democratic Republic of Congo's opposition leader Felix Tshisekedi was named the provisional winner of a long-awaited presidential poll. The Ebola virus has struck again in the DR Congo A new deadly Ebola outbreak has struck the Democratic Republic of Congo and claimed at least 20 lives DRC rejects former warlord Bemba's presidential bid The election commission of Democratic Republic of Congo has excluded opposition leader Jean-Pierre Bemba  from the list of approved candidates for December's presidential election. Bemba had spent a decade in prison in The Hague for war crimes, ha... Polls close in Goma in DR Congo elections Polling stations close in the eastern city of Goma, in the Democratic Republic of Congo. After two years of delays, crackdowns and political turmoil, the country voted in presidential elections that will determine the future of Africa's notoriousl... Two British hostages held in DRC are released Two British tourists and their Congolese driver have been released after being kidnapped in Democratic Republic of Congo. DR Congo opposition candidate Tshisekedi returns to Kinshasa Felix Tshisekedi, one of the main opposition candidates in next month's presidential election in the Democratic Republic of Congo, returns to Kinshasa. DR Congo: vast agricultural potential remains largely untapped The Democratic Republic of Congo has 80 million hectares of arable land, of which only 10% is said to be cultivated. As a result, this vast country is a net importer of foodstuffs, and six to seven million Congolese do not get enough to eat. Leadi... The state of Congo The DRC is on the verge of a humanitarian crisis. The largest UN peacekeeping force in the world is now in political turmoil. But how did we get here? Congo's opposition leader wins chaotic presidential election Democratic Republic of Congo's electoral commission declared opposition leader Felix Tshisekedi the surprise winner of the presidential election with 38.57 percent of votes. Congo's new Ebola outbreak is in a conflict zone Less than two weeks after the World Health Organization declared the Democratic Republic of Congo Ebola-free again, another outbreak has been reported in a new area for which security risks will complicate containment efforts. DR Congo awaits results after volatile presidential election In Goma’s polling centres, results give DR Congo opposition candidate, Martin Fayulu, a large lead in the presidential election with more than 60% of the votes with a turnout around 50%. After a relatively bloodless vote, election officials embark... DR Congo election: candidate Martin Fayulu casts his vote Congolese opposition candidate Martin Fayulu casts his vote in a polling station in Kinshasa. One opinion poll has Fayulu as a clear favourite, garnering around 44 percent of voting intentions. Millions of Congolese citizens are choosing a success... East Congo Ebola outbreak now world's 2nd biggest The Ebola outbreak in eastern Congo is now the second biggest in history, with 426 confirmed and probable cases. Opposition candidate Felix Tshisekedi votes in DR Congo election Felix Tshisekedi, one of the frontrunner opposition candidates, casts his vote in Kinshasa, DR Congo, in presidential elections that will shape the future of one of Africa's biggest and most unstable countries. Polls open in Goma: DR Congo presidential election Polls open in Goma, DR Congo for the presidential election. Electors are choosing a successor to President Joseph Kabila, who is stepping down two years after his term limit expired -- a delay that sparked bloody clashes and revived traumatic memo... Congo vote loser says he won by a landslide The runner-up in Democratic Republic of Congo's presidential vote says he'll file a fraud complaint, and that he won the poll by a landslide. Lucy Fielder and Giulia Paravicini report. Local community in Congo cheers priest's Ebola recovery Father Lucien Ambunga received a hero's welcome in Itipo in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, after doctors said he had made a a full recovery from Ebola. Questions about sex? Ask 'Dr Love' Aime Lokulutu runs a sexuality and reproductive health app in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Baby Chimp gets flown to safety A baby chimpanzee was rescued and flown to safety on the lap of an anti-poaching pilot.
 
Andrew Caere was flying Mussa the chimp from where he'd been rescued in North Kivu in the Democratic Republic of Congo. How Ebola attacks the body Videographic on the deadly disease Ebola. The death toll from an Ebola outbreak in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo has risen to more than 200. Congo's election result met with cheers, anger and uncertainty The outcome of Democratic Republic of Congo's election result has been welcome by some as a triumph for democracy, and rejected by others as a coup. Rapid response has ended Congo's Ebola outbreak Thirty-three people were believed killed by the most recent Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo. But rapid response by authorities and an experimental vaccine are credited with stopping a repeat of the 2013 disaster that took over 1... Christmas comes to the DRC amid a tense political atmosphere Residents of Goma in the Democratic Republic of Congo are preparing for Christmas, buying decorations and toys for children in a tense atmosphere as the presidential election approaches on December 30. Why does the DRC's long-delayed election matter? The Democratic Republic of Congo's presidential election will be held on Sunday, December 30, after a two-year delay. Here's why it matters. #DRC #Congo #election Congolese citizens-in-exile follow DRC election from afar With less than two weeks to go until presidential elections are held in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, thousands of Congolese citizens will not be able to cast their vote. Many have fled the country's conflict and war in the hope of finding... DRC elections: Opponent Fayulu launches presidential bid Opposition candidate Martin Fayulu returns to Kinshasa for the launch of his presidential campaign. Voters on December 23 will choose a successor to  outgoing President Joseph Kabila, who has constitutionally remained in power as caretaker leader ... Low-quality infrastrcuture a key issue as DRC election nears Linking the port of Matadi with the capital of Kinshasa, a 350 kilometre road runs through the southwest of the Democratic Republic of Congo. It's a crucial route, but also plagued by danger - representative of the dire state of the country's infr... Felix Tshisekedi wins DRC's long-delayed presidential election Felix Tshisekedi has won the DRC's long-delayed presidential election. It will be the country's first democratic transfer of power since its independence from Belgium in 1960.
#Tshisekedi #president #DRC Both sides claim lead in DRC's chaotic poll Congo's chaotic election could result in a disputed outcome after both the opposition and the ruling coalition claimed they were heading for victory. David Doyle reports DR Congo Ebola outbreak raises risk of epidemic DRC fears Ebola outbreak in a major city after it reached Malbandaka, a city of one million. Congo's president will end his extended rule The president of the Democratic Republic of Congo has ended speculation that he would seek re-election, now well beyond his original term limit. Joseph Kabila's decision to step down eases some fear of a slip back into devastating violence. Delays, storms mar start to Congo's presidential vote Voting in Democratic Republic of Congo's long-anticipated presidential election got off to a shaky start on Sunday due to torrential rain in the capital, long delays at some polling stations and broken-down machines. Congo cartoonist prepares to sketch a new president After 18 years, Thembo Kashauri, Democratic Republic of Congo's pre-eminent political cartoonist, is preparing to draw a new president. US sends troops to "protect its citizens" in the DRC The US has deployed 80 troops to Gabon to "protect US citizens" in the Democratic Republic of Congo in case violent election protests threaten their safety. #US #troops #DRC Vote counting underway in Goma after DR Congo elections Vote counting is underway in the eastern city of Goma. After two years of delays, crackdowns and political turmoil, the Democratic Republic of Congo voted in presidential elections that will determine the future of Africa's notoriously unstable gi... Ebola is back in the DRC - but the outlook is hopeful The spread of Ebola to a major city in the Democratic Republic of Congo is worrying but the outlook is much more optimistic than when a major outbreak was reported in West Africa in 2014, the head of the World Health Organization said on Monday. DRC: huge crowds for Kinshasa return of Tshisekedi & Kamerhe Tens of thousands of supporters turn out to welcome Congolese opposition scion Felix Tshisekedi as he returns to Kinshasa to kick off his campaign to replace President Joseph Kabila in next month's election. His running mate Vital Kamerhe joined h... DRC election: vote ongoing in Kinshasa polling stations Congolese citizens vote in a polling station in the capital, Kinshasa. Millions of electors are choosing a successor to President Joseph Kabila, who is stepping down after nearly 18 years at the helm. The vote gives DR Congo the chance of its firs... DRC election results: reactions from Goma Residents of Goma, the provincial capital of North Kivu in eastern DR Congo, react to the announcement of the provisional results of the presidential election, with opponent Felix Tshisekedi as the winner. The results, announced at four o'clock in... Why do Ebola outbreaks keep happening? The latest Ebola outbreak in the Congo has now reached a major population center, meaning it may be about to get much harder to contain. But stopping these repeat hotspots cuts to questions of education and food sources in the region. Ben Hirschle... Congolese police clash with protesters, fire tear gas to disperse them Police in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo fired tear gas to scatter protesters who were rallying against not being allowed to vote in the presidential elections. Who are the DR Congo's 'peacekeeper babies'? There have been over 700 complaints of sexual abuse and exploitation made against UN peacekeepers in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). It's led to a whole new generation called 'peacekeeper babies' WATCH: Dancing to a new tune at the Hillbrow music school The youth of the inner-city community of Hillbrow can find solace in music, thanks to Amisi "Coco" Mubale and the Hillbrow Music Centre. Watch. Election results leave Congo with uncertainty Democratic Republic of Congo's electoral commission declare opposition leader Felix Tsisekedi winner of a contentious presidential election. However vote tallies from Congo's Catholic church point to a different winner, raising the specter of a stand One candidate clearly won Congo election - Catholic church Democratic Republic of Congo's Catholic church said on Thursday it was clear which candidate won the country's presidential election, and demanded that the electoral commission publish accurate results. 5 things about Joseph Kabila Joseph Kabila has been the leader of the Democratic Republic of Congo for the last 17 years. Who is he? DRC election: mock vote in Beni with makeshift polling stations In Beni, a makeshift vote takes place in response to the postponement of the general elections that are occurring elsewhere in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Youth organisation and members of the population set up makeshift polling stations, wi... DR Congo election: polling stations open in Kinshasa Congolese citizens arrive to cast their vote as polling stations open in Kinshasa. Millions of electors are expected to turn out to choose a successor to President Joseph Kabila. The election's credibility has already been strained by repeated del...   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.