Ntwaagae Seleka King David Linksfield pupil David da Costa who obtained 6 distinctions (Supplied to News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories David da Costa changed schools six times during his school career. "My life as a student was a roller coaster. Eventually, I made it against all odds," the King David Linksfield student said. - Sign up to receive your matric results and you could win R10 000! Da Costa, 19, obtained six distinctions in Business Studies, English, Geography, Life Orientation, Mathematics and Physical Science. When he was younger, like many students, he struggled with maths and used to get very anxious at the thought of doing the subject. It may have been one of his toughest subjects, but Da Costa managed to secure a distinction for maths. Struggled a lot "When growing up, I was overwhelmed with maths and didn’t enjoy doing it. At Grade 3, I was sent to Bellavista School, which is a remedial school. There I passed to Grade 4. Initially, I didn’t like Bellavista, I didn’t want to be there. "I went to King David Victory Park and was ordered to be in a lower class at Grade 4. I later repeated Grade 4. I then went to another school, where I studied Grade 5 up to 9,” he said. Initially, Da Costa didn't thrive. His highest marks were between 60% and 65% in every subject, but he yearned to obtain distinctions. He also wanted to play rugby and cricket at school, while at the same time wanting to improve his marks. "I went to King David High School [Linksfield] to do my Grade 9. I wanted to take science, but was told my marks were low and I had to work hard to get the required marks. At the end of Grade 9, I got 69% in science. At the end of Grade 10 things changed for me. I became a better student. "I got 70% aggregate. At Grade 11, I got an average of 82% in all subjects, including maths and science. During my first matric preliminary examinations, my results improved more," he said. Injury to his knee In September 2017, Da Costa tore his knee ligament while playing rugby for his school. He completed his rehabilitation last week. Before his injury, he played cricket, representing Team Maccabi SA at Maccabiah in Israel in 2017. "After the injury my father sat down with me and told me that maybe I won’t be able to play sport again, and to focus on greater things in life which are my books. I have not played any sport last year and I found myself succeeding in many things at school. "For the first time in my life, I received a medal at the end of 2017. I was among the top students at King David High School Linksfield. My parents were very proud of me. When I remember the journey I have travelled, having to change six schools from primary level, being bullied and laughed at, indeed my life was a roller coaster," he concluded. Da Costa is torn between studying Electrical Engineering and Mechanical Engineering at Wits University this year. - See our Matric Results page. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. WATCH: 10-year-old whizz-kid solves complex maths problems in just seconds 10-year-old Sbahle Zwane was in pre-school when his teacher first noticed his extraordinary gift with numbers. The Grade 4 learner first gained popularity for his impressive mental maths skills after videos of him went viral on social media. WATCH. WATCH: 127 inmates receive qualifications at inspirational graduation ceremony The Department of Correctional Services handed out 127 qualifications, including one master's degree, to graduating offenders on Friday. Watch the video above. WATCH: 19-year-old inmate aspires to become neurosurgeon Liam Bradford,19, is an inmate at Boksburg Prison's juvenile section. Bradford dreams of becoming a neurosurgeon to help disabled children. Watch. Ethiopian orphans learn to paint with a Turkish artist Orphans in Ethiopia are learning how to paint with the help of one of Turkey's most celebrated painters Ilhami Atalay, as part of an international program using art to promote children's education. The Turkish program, Hayallere Degen Resimler, is... Why is Turkey becoming a hub for higher education? Turkey is becoming a hub for higher education for students from across the world. But what is driving the change? #Higher #Education #Turkey 3 students killed in China university lab explosion Three students were killed in a laboratory blast at a Beijing university, the city's fire department says. Navitas sign deal with James Cook University 24 Dec 2018 - Navitas (ASX:NVT) has signed a recruitment and marketing agreement with James Cook University Global education. Syrian refugee student attacked in a US school "You're lucky you're from another language because I will crush you b*tch."

A 15-year-old Syrian refugee in the US was attacked by another student in a school bathroom.

#US #refugee #attack Prince Charles visits primary school for Christmas play Prince Charles visits Tetbury primary school Miss Philippines wins 2018 Miss Universe crown Newly crowned Miss Universe, Catriona Gray of The Philippines, says she would like to expand her work in the slums of her country's capital Manila with an organisation that promotes education on HIV and AIDS. Meet the teenager studying combat at school A surge of patriotism in Poland has resulted in increased demand for military classes in high schools. The BBC joined one student, Doris for field training and combat lessons. In Pakistan public education suffocates under surging population At the Tanjai Cheena school in northwest Pakistan students squeeze into makeshift classrooms where plastic tarps serve as walls and electricity is sparse, as a surging population overstretches the country's fragile education system. 'Cheat India' is on faulty education system : Emraan Hashmi Actor Emraan Hashmi, who is gearing up for his forthcoming release "Cheat India", has said every student and parent must watch it as it brings to the fore the irregularities present in our education system. WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. Emraan Hashmi is SCAMSTER | Cheat India TRAILER OUT After its gripping teaser, actor Emraan Hashmi released the trailer of his social drama Cheat India, which shows the corruption that goes behind the examinations in India. In the trailer, Emraan Hashmi is the centre of all the corruption as he doe... Albanian students protest over tuition costs Thousands of Albanian university students take to Tirana's streets for their biggest show of strength yet in a protest movement demanding lower tuition fees and more investment in public education. High school and university students protest in Paris Several hundred high school students are joined by university students at the Place Saint Michel in Paris to protest education reforms, including changes to crucial end-of-high school exams and access to higher education. French police arrest hundreds of students across the country French students have been blocking access to high schools across France in protest of President Emmanuel Macron's education reforms. #France #Franceprotests #giletsjaunes #Macron K Subramanian appointed as new CEA He is the Associate Professor and ED at Centre for Analytical Finance and comes with a wealth of knowledge and experience. Invest for your daughter's education Is your portfolio too risky? should you re-balance or consolidate your funds? Here is what our market expert has to say. Michelle Obama speaks at London girls' school Michelle Obama spoke to pupils in North London about the power of education. Plan Your Child’s Education With Mutual Funds Harshavardhan Roongta helps you with all your mutual fund related queries. Choosing the right fund for your children's education and marriage Raghvendra Nath, MD of Ladderup Wealth Management answers your mutual fund queries Nepal stalls on LGBT rights despite early strides Despite progressive laws on paper, Nepal's LGBT community continue to face huge hurdles accessing education and employment opportunities as well as the right to marry. Cardi B visits former elementary school Cardi B just shocked and surprised teachers and students at her old elementary school when she paid them a visit! 'Without football, I wouldn't have an education' Kenyan women's football star Cheris Avila says sport has changed her life on and off the pitch. U by APoll01 | Disrupt Berlin 2018 APoll01 has developed an affordable open platform designed to surface the needs of educational institutions, students and faculty for the purpose of establishing educational standards. Irish premier promises five years of income tax cuts Irish premier Leo Varadkar has promised five years of income tax cuts as well as more spending on education and health.

He said it is "unfair" people on average incomes pay the highest rate of tax. CHEAT INDIA TEASER OUT | Emraan Hashmi never seen before Avatar Actor Emraan Hashmi, who was last seen in Baadshaho, will be seen in Cheat India, which talks about the education system in India. After its first look, Emraan shared the teaser of the film. he teaser of the movie starts with Emraan Hashmi introdu... Rosamund Pike having most 'meaningful moment' of career with Marie Colvin role Rosamund Pike has said she is having "one of the most meaningful moments of my career" with her portrayal of war correspondent Marie Colvin in her new film A Private War. Rosamund Pike having most 'meaningful moment' of career with Marie Colvin role Rosamund Pike has said she is having "one of the most meaningful moments of my career" with her portrayal of war correspondent Marie Colvin in her new film A Private War. G8 Education shares rally on outlook 15 Nov 2018 - Child care services firm, G8 Education (ASX:GEM) advised its earnings for the 2018 calendar year will be in line with market consensus and its shares hit a 6-month high. South Korea - the price of success South Korea's education system is notorious for the pressure it places on school students. Often they have little time for hobbies or friends. One start-up wants to make learning more fun. Dan + Shay surprise fan at CMA rehearsal After their rehearsal for the CMA Awards, country duo Dan + Shay surprised a fan - Matthew Morales, a young musician who benefits from music education funds raised by the CMA - with an invitation to the awards show in Nashville. Miro Sorvino urges #MeToo to do more than 'name and shame' Mira Sorvino believes the key to eradicating sexual misconduct lies more in preventative education than in "naming and shaming" the perpetrators. Money apps aim to help kids in cashless world For kids growing up in today's cashless society, the piggy bank is going virtual. A wave of digital pocket money apps that come with prepaid cards are new tools for financial education as money increasingly goes digital. Teens on how social media could affect well-being of students The Toronto District School Board says social media use is one area of concern as new data indicates a decline in students’ well-being. One high schooler says turning off phone notifications is one way he maintains “balance.” French teachers protest against Macron reform plan Nearly one in two high school teachers, and one in four primary school teachers, go on strike against President Macron's plans to reform France's education sector and cut jobs - the first time all teaching unions have agreed to strike together sin... CHEAT INDIA First Look | Emraan Hashmi Unveils Actor Emraan Hashmis next Cheat India made headlines ever since its announcement and now the actor unveiled the First look poster of the film, which is slated to release in January 2019. Cheat India- a compelling, edge-of-the-seat drama inspired b... Zoe Kravitz felt 'like a freak' at school Zoe Kravitz "felt like a freak" at school because of the colour of her skin, as she went to a private school with predominantly white students. 79 school pupils kidnapped in troubled Cameroon region Gunmen kidnap 79 school students in an English-speaking region of Cameroon where separatists are fighting an armed campaign for independence, security and government sources said. Invest in mutual fund and secure your children's education Experts guide you how to invest in mutual fund for a long term in order to secure your children's future. Cox & Kings Jumps On Edu Biz Sale Cox & Kings to sell education business for Rs 4,390 Cr to Midlothian capital partners and the transaction is subject to regulatory approvals. Dresden teacher wary of far-right AfD online platform A Dresden teacher recalls what life was like under communism. That's why the far-right AfD party's new online platform reminds her of the days when students could denounce teachers. Meghan's Fiji message of female empowerment The Duchess of Sussex spoke in Fiji about the importance of women getting university education. Parallel worlds in education Bjork and Tom both attend schools in Germany. The system is supposed to be egalitarian. But she has access to the latest technology at her private school, while at his public school not even the fire safety equipment works properly.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.