Aletta Harrison WATCH: Cape nursery launches dagga growing kits A Cape Town garden centre says it's received unprecedented interest from prospective growers since launching its cannabis starter kits last week. Watch. A cannabis plant. Picture: Aletta Harrison/News24 Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Cape Town nursery says it has received "crazy" levels of interest since launching the first dagga growing kit on the local market. The enOrmus Bud starter kits for novice cannabis growers hit the shelves at Starke Ayres Garden Centre last week and are produced by local company TransfOrmus. Richard Morris, garden centre manager at Starke Ayres in Rosebank, described the response as "absolutely phenomenal". "I mean, 25 000 hits literally within two days - we were off the charts. We had three people engaging with customers telephonically - it’s been absolutely crazy," he told News24. The life cycle of a marijuana plant Step inside the Ontario facilities of a licensed pot producer and see the various life stages of cannabis – from seedling to flower to processing and packaging. Morris added that the kits made cultivating cannabis much more accessible. Read: Dagga ruling a joint victory - now to hash out the details "The kit is really a brainwave and a pioneering product in allowing people who are non-gardeners – who couldn’t grow a rose at home – to actually buy everything they need in a single item and actually growing it successfully up to a vegetative stage." Furthermore, the nursery has found people are openly seeking advice, since the topic is no longer taboo. "It's now not this hidden underground network all the time – and that's generally the feedback we're getting. It's been empowering and uplifting – I mean most of our client base that are visiting or calling us is the 50-60 category, which is hilarious," he added. The kit includes starter soil in small pots for the germination process. The biodegradable pots are then transferred into larger pots for the next stage. The kits include the enOrmus bud microbial food for soil and a brochure with instructions for the novice grower. They do, however, not contain seeds, as it is still illegal to sell them.  Keep the shape! L.A restaurant serves tempura-battered cannabis leaves Did you ever want to taste cannabis but never fancied smoking it? A restaurant in LA has found a solution, by serving tempura-fried leaves in their secret menu as appetisers. A chef at the restaurant found a way to keep the original shape of the p... Ontario won't put a cap on the number of cannabis stores The Ontario government says it won't limit the number of retail cannabis stores when licensing begins. The Tories are set to introduce a bill that will appoint the Alcohol and Gaming Commission of Ontario as regulator. AusCann signs MoU with Khiron Life Sciences 01 Oct 2018 - Pharmaceutical company, AusCann (ASX:AC8) has signed a non-binding Memorandum of Understanding with Canadian listed medical cannabis company Khiron Life Sciences (TSXV: KHRN). Can cannabis save Lebanon? Lebanon is looking at legalizing medical marijuana cultivation. Here's why. AusCann Joint Venture commences first cultivation 22 Jan 2019 - Medical cannabis company, AusCann (ASX:AC8) says its DayaCann joint venture is set to kick off its third party cannabis cultivation with Canadian medical cannabis company Khiron Life Sciences. Barr: I wouldn't go after marijuana companies Attorney general nominee Bill Barr says he would "not go after" marijuana companies in states where cannabis is legal. Tesla executive quits, CEO smokes pot and shares drop Shares of Tesla fell 8 percent at the open on Friday after news the company's chief accounting officer quit after less than a month on the job and a day after CEO Elon Musk shared a joint with a comedian on a comedy podcast. Tesla executive quits, CEO smokes pot and shares drop Shares of Tesla fell tk tk at the open on Friday after news the company's chief accounting officer quit after less than a month on the job and a day after CEO Elon Musk shared a joint with a comedian on a comedy podcast. Ottawa not focused on marijuana pardons yet: Justice minister The Liberal government was asked Wednesday whether Ottawa would consider pardoning people convicted of marijuana crimes in the past. The Senate passed the Cannabis Act on Tuesday, but pot remains illegal until the bill goes into effect. . Legal pot price must be ‘competitive’ with black market: Blair The organized crime reduction minister says there is “consensus” that a competitive price for legal pot is key to undercutting illicit cannabis sales. Bill Blair spoke Tuesday, one day before marijuana becomes legal nationwide. Ontario politicians weigh in on pot legalization Ontario residents can now legally buy cannabis from a government-run online store, with brick-and-mortar outlets expected to open next year. Ontario Finance Minister Vic Fedeli is encouraging people to only purchase pot legally. Rapper Classified celebrates legal pot in new music video Nova Scotia rapper Classified released a music video called “Legal Marijuana” on Wednesday to coincide with the legalization of recreational weed. The rapper says using pot is “no worse” than consuming alcohol. Ottawa rejects Senate limits on growing pot at home The Liberals are rejecting a Senate amendment that would allow provinces to bar people from growing marijuana at home. The health minister says the legislation should be consistent with medical pot rules around home cultivation. Creso Pharma buys Kunna Canada 21 Dec 2018 - Medical cannabis company Creso Pharma (ASX:CPH) has completed the acquisition of 100 per cent of the shares in Kunna Canada. Startup Battlefield Finals - CB Therapeutics CB Therapeutics has developed natural cannabinoids in yeast, using just sugar. Police will use ‘common sense’ on first day of legal pot: Chief The president of the Canadian Association of Chiefs of Police says it is “highly unlikely” there will be big crackdowns on illegal cannabis stores on the first day of legal recreational marijuana. Should Canada's pot convicts get amnesty? As Canada makes cannabis legal, what happens to the 500,000 people with convictions for possession? Trudeau says government 'moving forward' on pot legalization Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said Thursday the plan to make recreational marijuana legal this summer will go ahead without delay despite a recent Senate committee report calling for more consultations. Nathan Fillion says pot legalization is a ‘wonderful thing’ Actor Nathan Fillion says the medicinal benefits of marijuana are helping “a lot of people.” The L.A.-based Canadian actor was in Toronto on Tuesday promoting his new show, “The Rookie.” Epileptic boy has cannabis oil medication returned The mother of a severely epileptic boy has celebrated managing to convince the Home Office to return his cannabis oil medication that officials confiscated at customs. AusCann buys a research and development facility in Perth 25 Jan 2019 - Medical cannabis company AusCann Group Holdings (ASX:AC8) has bought a research and development facility in Perth in WA. MMJ says MediPharm Labs replenishes cannabis inventory 11 Jan 2019 - MMJ Group Holdings (ASX:MMJ) says MediPharm Labs is already replenishing and increasing inventory to ensure uninterrupted cannabis oil supply for its existing customers for Q1 2019. Legal pot use in Ontario to be limited to private residences Ontario says it will begin selling recreational cannabis online on Oct. 17, with private retail stores supplying pot from April 1, 2019. The province says consumers will only be allowed to use legalized pot in private residences. Royal Navy warship seizes tonnes of cannabis in major Gulf drugs bust Royal Navy warship HMS Dragon has seized three tonnes of cannabis in a major Gulf drugs bust, while on Patrol in the Middle East. Greece's largest seizure of cannabis It was found on a boat traveling between Cyprus and Malta. Pot user says legally bought joint is ’pretty good’ Cannabis enthusiasts in British Columbia and Quebec lined up to purchase legal weed for the first time on Wednesday. One Montreal customer says he would have appreciated more variety in the government-run store. Pot users hope legalization removes stigma Cannabis users marking Wednesday’s legalization say they hope the new laws change people’s perception of the drug. Some pot smokers say legalization won’t change much for people who use marijuana regularly. PAX, cannabis oil and moderation PAX Labs is a consumer electronics company in the cannabis space. Their cannabis oil based vaporizers are changing the way we consume THC and CBD. Cannabis gift ideas for this holiday season Looking for a unique gift for the cannabis lover on your holiday list? Robin Ellins from Toronto’s Friendly Stranger Cannabis Culture Shop highlights the latest trends in pot accessories. Coke ‘closely watching' the cannabis market Coca-Cola says it is closely watching the growing marijuana-infused drinks market, responding to a report that the beverage maker was in talks with Canada’s Aurora Cannabis Inc. Estonian district adopts cannabis flag after online poll A local government in Estonia has narrowly approved using a flag with an image of a cannabis leaf as its symbol after a online poll overwhelmingly voted for it. 10 Ailments Cannabis Can Help With According to Science Smoking weed might be able to help you with some of these illnesses and maladies. Canadian students go to college to learn how to grow pot As Canadians prepare for the legalization of recreational cannabis this week, 24 students are becoming the first in the country to get formal credentials in growing pot. Medlab receives license to export cannabis 11 Sep 2018 - Medical Sciences Company, Medlab Clincial (ASX:MDC) has received a license to export Cannabis from the office of Drug Control (ODC) as it relates to 2 pioneering cannabis based medicines. Cannabis campaigner: New laws don't go far enough Campaigner Calli Blackwell wants easier access to medicinal cannabis. GreenSTOP offers a retail platform fo the cannabis industry An ancillary cannabis technology company that utilizes hardware and software to automate the retail cannabis industry. MMJ Group appoints new director 09 Jan 2019 - Cannabis investment company, MMJ Group Holdings (ASX:MMJ) has announced the appointment of Michael Curtis as a non-executive director. Pooch-pot! Italian startup offers cannabis for depressed pets If your pet is anxious, depressed or aggressive, in Italy, you can treat it with cannabis. The Italian Start-up WeedEntity has opened a shop in Naples where dogs and cats with depression, arthritis, insomnia or chronic pain can receive treatment w... Shares in Danish cannabis oil firm StenoCare start trading Danish cannabis oil firm StenoCare makes its stock market debut on Friday, aiming to take advantage of a recent surge in investor interest in a substance that is still banned or restricted in many markets. Cannabis Etiquette: Navigating pot use in the holiday season Canadians are heading into the first holiday season post-legalization of marijuana S.Africa eyes green shoots in local cannabis industry South Africa's first cannabis industry exhibition attracts scores of entrepreneurs and consumers, since the constitutional court ruled that private, personal cannabis use was legal. Inside the world's largest cannabis farm Canadian MPs have legalised marijuana for recreational use. The BBC visited a huge cannabis farm in British Columbia, which the operators say is the world's largest. Inside the world's largest cannabis farm Canada is on the verge of legalising marijuana for recreational use. The BBC visited a huge cannabis farm in British Columbia, which the operators say is the world's largest. Cannabis oil hot chocolate on sale at London cafe A London-based cafe has put a tasty spin on the weed-laced wellness cannabis oil trend. The Farm Girl Cafe has dreamt up a CBD-infused hot chocolate. What's legal and what's not under Canada's new cannabis law Canada's new law legalizing recreational cannabis goes into force on Wednesday, but rules won’t be the same across the country. Here is what you need to know before lighting up. Take a look at one of Quebec’s legal cannabis stores Quebec’s government agency responsible for the sale of cannabis gave a tour of a Montreal store on Tuesday ahead of legalization on Oct. 17. A total of 12 stores will open in the province on Wednesday. Giant joints, dance parties mark 4:20 on legal weed Day 1 Some pot enthusiasts around the country celebrated the first day of legal cannabis by blazing up at 4:20 p.m. But one weed user in Ottawa said he’ll keep getting marijuana from his “guy” until he can trust government weed. Preview of a Nova Scotia cannabis shop within a liquor store The head of the Nova Scotia Liquor Corp. says selling cannabis and alcohol under one roof will pose some unique challenges. Bret Mitchell gave a glimpse on Wednesday into one of the province's coming cannabis stores.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.