Tshidi Madia WATCH: SA recognises Maduro as Venezuela's leader and no one else Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Lindiwe Sisulu has said South Africa recognises Nicolas Maduro as the rightful leader of Venezuela and would use its vote in the UN security council to that effect. Lindiwe Sisulu. (Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories   Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Lindiwe Sisulu said South Africa recognises Nicolas Maduro as the rightful leader of Venezuela and would use its vote in the UN security council to that effect. Russia and South Africa, which just assumed a non-permanent seat in the council, are expected to block a move by US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to get the global body to recognise Juan Guaido as the embattled country's "self-proclaimed" acting president. It's understood an emergency security council meeting had been called to deal with the issue on Saturday. Venezuela added a political crisis on top of its economic and social challenges when a move by Guaido to declare himself interim president received the backing of US President Donald Trump and numerous other states. Sisulu questioned why a man who had simply declared himself president should be supported. Also international relations minister Lindiwe Sisulu has confirmed that government backs Venezuela’s President Nicolas Maduro-saying anything else(Juan Guaido devoting himself president) is irregular. "We recognise the duly elected democratic president until such time that he steps down or is duly unelected, and that is what we are presenting at the UN security council," Sisulu told journalists during a sit-down at the tail-end of a state visit by President Cyril Ramaphosa. "Anything else we find irregular, and that is a position we are going to put across at the UN security council," added Sisulu. The minister formed part of a delegation that included numerous other ministers, including Gwede Mantashe, Pravin Gordhan, Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams and Naledi Pandor, as well as role-players in the business sector. Sisulu said South Africa had taken key lessons from when it abstained on a resolution to condemn all human rights violations in Myanmar last year. "Having studied the case, I came to the decision that I want us to have a case-by-case resolution," she said, telling journalists she had no issues being woken up at odd hours for this. "They will not have a carte blanche on issues like this," she said. "Our situation is very clear, recognise the duly elected democratic government of Venezuela. I understand they are under severe pressure or undergoing severe difficulty, but that is the only government that has been duly elected," she said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Cyril Ramaphosa speaking at the start of his official state visit in India South African President Cyril Ramaphosa speaking at the start of his official state visit in India. He is flanked by Indian Prime Minister Nareandri Modi (in white) and Indian President Ram Nath Kovind WATCH: 'Give me a tender' - sings satirical 'Elvis' on Bosasa scandal The much-talked about Bosasa scandal has gripped South Africa over the past week since former chief-operating officer Angelo Agrizzi blew the whistle on bribery and corruption. WATCH: Thieves ambush and rob sleeping truck driver A video of a truck driver valiantly fighting off a suspected robber who broke into his truck while he was sleeping inside has surfaced on social media. WATCH: This race horse just sold for a cool R4 million This year's top seller at the Cape Premier Yearling Sale was an unnamed filly that sold for R4 million from the Klawervlei Stud farm located in Breede River outside Bonnievale, Western Cape. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma's culpable homicide trial postponed to March The culpable homicide case against Duduzane Zuma was postponed to March 26 in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday. WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. WATCH: Police arrest KZN man who threatened to blow up office workers Police have arrested a KwaZulu-Natal man who threatened to blow up office workers with a bomb. WATCH: IEC hails new law to ensure transparency in political party funding President Cyril Ramaphosa signed the Political Party Funding bill into law on Tuesday. WATCH: 10 million eligible voters are unregistered - IEC Almost 10 million South Africans who are eligible to vote are not registered, the Independent Electoral Commission said on Wednesday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.