Canny Maphanga The ANC in Johannesburg has expressed shock and concern over Mayor Herman Mashaba's recent statements over the delivery of sanitary pads to Grade R pupils, saying he should make the female toiletries accessible instead of shaming menstruating young girls. Mashaba tweeted last week that the government's apparent distribution of sanitary pads to Grade R pupils got them to focus on sex instead of education.  This for me this is not about laziness, but deliberate destroying the future of our youth. You get kids to focus on sex, instead of Education https://t.co/QmGNHVCY2v He was responding to a tweet which showed Environmental Affairs Minister Nomvula Mokonyane distributing sanitary pads at a combined school which caters for primary and high school children. Lakelani! Mamelani! Reetsang! Listen!We were at a school called Mandosi. It's a combined school.The sanitary towels are for deserving girls! The Vodacom goodies are for GradeR and lower primary kiddies. Go on armchair critics and passionate haters of Nomvula. Ikhonkotha ehambayo! pic.twitter.com/SeITzBZXAv  But the ANC was not impressed. "As someone in a position of power, his historic and continuous ignorance and bigoted views enable the perpetuation of problematic and patriarchal sentiments which contribute to institutionalised sexism and the scourge of gender-based violence in our country," the party's Johannesburg deputy secretary, Loyiso Masuku, said in a statement on Tuesday. Masuku encouraged Mashaba to retract his statement. "The mayor should, as a form of remorse and efforts of correcting his harmful behaviour, retract his utterances and subsequently follow the example of the ANC in Johannesburg of donating sanitary towels to young girls in primary, secondary and high schools," he said. ALSO READ: Twitter hits back at Mashaba over his sanitary pad tweets "An estimated 30% of schoolgoing children miss out on school for several days a month due to a lack of sanitary products, and this exacerbates inequality as these children are denied their right to education. "To want to shame children who menstruate undermines the collective efforts of this country of working towards a just and equal society," Masuku added. Director of Mayoral Communications at the City of Joburg, Luyanda Mfeka, said the City would not issue a statement because Mashaba already clarified his position on the matter through his tweets. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.