Buks Viljoen, Correspondent Jane Sithole, leader of the DA in Mpumalanga, at the dumping site. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Heaps of trash block the entrance to the rubbish dump in Standerton while the smell of rotting matter permeates the air in the Mpumalanga town. The Lekwa municipality has been accused of not maintaining the site and dumping rubbish next to the R546, which is the main route to Secunda. Following a visit to the site, the DA in Mpumalanga laid criminal charges against Mayor Lindokuhle Dhlamini and municipal manager Gugulethu Mhlongo-Ntshangase. READ: Standerton sewage flowing into Vaal The charges against Dhlamini and Mhlongo-Ntshangase are based on section 49A of the National Environmental Management Act. This act prohibits any person from dumping waste in a public area. "With the landfill site filled to the brim, the council just started to dump rubbish on an open site next to the Secunda road. What is of even bigger concern is that there is no effort from the council to maintain or rehabilitate the current dump site," said DA leader in the province Jane Sithole. Complaints Sithole said the party has been inundated with complaints from residents who say the dump site is a health risk. Another complaint from residents is the lack of maintenance of the town's sewerage system. Over the years many of the sewerage pipes have either become blocked or have collapsed, resulting in raw sewage running down the streets and flowing into the Vaal River. Louis van Rensburg, a DA councilor, says the main problem is at the Rooikoppen plant. The South African Human Rights Commission recently held an official hearing to establish the extent of the problem. Thobeka Mtshiselwa, spokesperson for Lekwa municipality, said garbage was piling up at the dumping site because the machine used to clean the site had broken down. "The council has now also decided to hire a machine to clean up the mess next to the Secunda road." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Hearts will break as you see an eagle take out a baby warthog A baby warthog ran its last run with the family when a martial eagle decided to make it its next meal in Kruger National Park in South Africa. WATCH: Motorist refuses to 'pay' bribe for speeding A video of a Mpumalanga motorist confronting traffic officers after they allegedly asked him for a bribe has gone viral on social media. WATCH: Aerial view of Secunda taxi strike Scores of taxi drivers in Secunda, Mpumalanga caused a traffic jam on roads moving in and out of the city centre. RUSSIA TRIP: 'I'm back' says David Mabuza; paid for own trip to get medical treatment Deputy President David Mabuza has emerged in Piet Retief, Mpumalanga, after he went to Russia for a routine medical trip after taking sick leave last month. Mabuza back from sick leave, campaigns in Mpumalanga Deputy President David Mabuza has emerged in Piet Retief, Mpumalanga, after he went Russia for a routine medical trip after taking sick leave last month. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. WATCH: Witness says she was 14 when pastor Timothy Omotoso started molesting her The first witness has taken the stand of the trial of controversial pastor Timothy Omotoso, taking place in Port Elizabeth. WATCH: Dashcam footage shows Mpumalanga two-truck head-on collision Two trucks collided head-on, while a third was pushed off the road, along the Bathel to Kriel road in Mpumalanga on Friday. WATCH: Calm restored in the small town of Middelburg following looting - police on high alert Police are on high alert in Mhluzi in Middelburg, Mpumalanga, after widespread looting in the area. When your day in Sabi starts with a leopard kill inside the camp... Staff in Idube Game Reserve who spend their entire time in the bush could not believe this early-morning kill which took place right on the lawn of the lodge. WATCH: Cheeky Sabi Sabi elephant grazes on tree from resort roof Forget about a cat on a hot tin roof - why not try an elephant for size? And no, your eyes are not deceiving you – there is indeed an elephant bull on the roof of the Sabi Sabi Earth Lodge (a private game reserve) in Mpumalanga. WATCH: Looters descend on cash-in-transit vehicle after Mpumalanga heist Another day and another cash-in-transit heist. This time, the suspects were filmed while in the act in Mpumalanga.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.