Inga Mbambisa WATCH: Thieves ambush and rob sleeping truck driver A video of a truck driver valiantly fighting off a suspected robber who broke into his truck while he was sleeping inside has surfaced on social media. truck driver robber while sleeping  (screen grab ) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A video of a truck driver valiantly fighting off a suspected robber who broke into his truck while he was sleeping inside has surfaced on social media. The heavy vehicle, with two drivers, had stopped to check its tyres and load close to the Mooi River Toll Plaza on Tuesday morning, an anonymous source with close knowledge of the incident told News24. "While one of the drivers was outside, the other was inside the cab sleeping." "One of the suspects held him at knife point and took the TomTom GPS unit, along with other personal items," the source said. According to KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane, the suspects fled the scene when the driver who was outside the vehicle shouted to a nearby traffic police post for assistance. "A case of theft out of a motor vehicle was opened at the Mooi River police station," Zwane said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: This race horse just sold for a cool R4 million This year's top seller at the Cape Premier Yearling Sale was an unnamed filly that sold for R4 million from the Klawervlei Stud farm located in Breede River outside Bonnievale, Western Cape. VIDEO: Police, SPCA say these monkeys probably didn't escape from hijacked vehicle Two separate videos of a monkey jumping between homes and one casually strolling about have emerged on social media. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma's culpable homicide trial postponed to March The culpable homicide case against Duduzane Zuma was postponed to March 26 in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday. WATCH: 'That's why Julius must take the land' - woman's Clicks rant goes viral Video footage of a woman verbally attacking a fellow customer at a Clicks pharmacy in Durban has been widely circulated on social media. WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. Woman in critical condition after Audi horror crash A woman is in a critical condition after the Audi she was traveling in veered off the road, became airborne and slammed into a sign post, emergency services have said. WATCH: What makes a champion race horse? The next generation of champion race horses is up for auction at the Cape Premier Yearling Sale where buyers are prepared to part with millions, but it may be a very expensive gamble. WATCH: Police arrest KZN man who threatened to blow up office workers Police have arrested a KwaZulu-Natal man who threatened to blow up office workers with a bomb. WATCH: IEC hails new law to ensure transparency in political party funding President Cyril Ramaphosa signed the Political Party Funding bill into law on Tuesday. WATCH: 10 million eligible voters are unregistered - IEC Almost 10 million South Africans who are eligible to vote are not registered, the Independent Electoral Commission said on Wednesday. WATCH: Video of Durban businessman chastising white beggar goes viral A video of a Durban businessman refusing to give a white beggar R2 because "my forefathers will kill me", has gone viral on social media. WATCH: 'Leave her alone' - commuters defend passenger allegedly dragged from Kulula flight Fellow commuters of the passenger who was forcibly removed from a Kulula flight during the early hours of Saturday, insist that the woman did nothing wrong. Watch the footage above. WATCH: Pitso Mosimane blasts Wydad Casablanca players for intimidating the match officials Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane has fired at Moroccan side Wydad Casablanca and accused the visitors of trying to intimidate the match officials during a highly charged and emotional CAF Champions League group stages encounter at Lucas Moripe WATCH: Enterprising Joburgers 'ferry' passengers across flooded road Enterprising Joburgers came to the rescue of stranded pedestrians looking to cross a flooded street near Noord Street taxi rank. WATCH: Joburg security guard wounded in shootout with armed robbery suspects A security guard was shot and wounded as he investigated a suspected business robbery on the corner of Prichard and Mooi Streets in Johannesburg last Saturday afternoon.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.