Riaan Grobler Protesters blocking the R55 near Pretoria on Tuesday.  (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories  Olievenhoutbosch community members took to the R55 on
Tuesday morning to protest following the disappearance of a child on January
12, police have said. Police spokesperson, Captain Kay Makhubela, who was on his
way to the scene of the protest, told News24 that protesters were "voicing
their concerns" following the disappearance of the child. Both entrances to Sunderland Ridge on the R55 in Centurion
were blocked by protesters on Tuesday morning, causing severe traffic jams in
the area. "Police are continuing the search for the child and
monitoring the situation," Makhubela said. No incidents of violence had been reported. Makhubela said he would provide more information once he was on the scene. Read: Vehicles set on fire during protest action in Centurion Motorists took to Twitter, posting pictures and video footage of the gridlock and protesters. This is a developing story. AVOID R55 SUNDERLAND RIDGE!!!! PTA. GP. PROTEST ACTION. pic.twitter.com/FMWKnLarGj  @jacarandafm Sunderland Ridge is completely blocked off. pic.twitter.com/zeVD0SDKVC  Strike on R55 PRETORIA all routes blocked @TrafficSA @eNCA pic.twitter.com/EzqHweIBMe  Strike at Sunderland Ridge pic.twitter.com/c3Lr5Mda2q    WATCH: Community protests over housing in Mariannridge, Durban Mariannridge residents blockaded roads with burning tires and tree logs during a protest over housing in the area on Tuesday. WATCH. WATCH: Police use stun grenades to disperse picketing MyCiti protesters Police have fired stun grenades at MyCiti bus drivers on strike in the Cape Town CBD. WATCH: Burning tyres, logs and truck light up Howick sky KwaZulu-Natal police say the violent protest that forced the closure of the N3 in the vicinity of Howick in KZN Midlands on Thursday night was sparked by the arrest of community members who had allegedly invaded a private property in the area. WATCH: Anti-racism protest shuts down Bronkhorstspruit During a protest against racism in Bronkhorstspruit on Tuesday, where the entire central business district of the small town was shut down, the ANC Youth League in Tshwane have made a call expropriate land belonging to racist farmers. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. WATCH: Vehicles set alight during apparent housing protest in Nyanga Members of the Ocean View community in Cape Town took to the streets on Thursday to voice their frustrations at shootings and other violence in the area. WATCH: Truck set alight during protest in Isando A truck was set alight allegedly by protesting workers in the plastics sector in Isando, east of Johannesburg on Thursday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.