Tshidi Madia Solly Msimanga. (Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The City of Tshwane's first citizen, Solly Msimanga, will on Friday announce a decision to step down as mayor. News24 understands the DA Gauteng premier candidate's tenure will end in February, after which he will commit more time to his campaign for the provincial office. It is expected that the speaker of council, Katlego Mathebe, will take over from Msimanga as mayor. READ: Is it Msimanga out and Gana in for Tshwane? Msimanga took over as mayor in 2016 through a coalition government after the municipal elections that did not produce an outright victor in the City. The coalition and working relationship between the DA and the EFF resulted in an ANC government that was riddled with in-fighting being kicked out of power and onto the city council's opposition benches – for the first time since the dawn of democracy. However, Msimanga has been feeling the heat from community members, opposition parties and even from members of his own caucus who have grown unhappy and have expressed a lack of faith in his leadership skills. Running battles The ANC in Tshwane and its leader, Kgosi Maepa, have been calling for Msimanga's removal for several months amid the mayor's running battles with city manager Moeketsi Mosola over the multibillion-rand GladAfrica contract scandal. READ: Msimanga to ask Tshwane council to suspend city manager again as new allegations emerge Msimanga has also been accused of making a number of improper appointments, including those of his chief of staff and spokesperson, while the EFF, which is in a partnership with the DA in Tshwane, had previously attempted to get rid of Msimanga through a motion of no confidence. Msimanga and the DA are expected to use the upcoming polls as the reason for the development. Some have accused the party of seeing him as a liability and wanting to conveniently remove him from difficult Tshwane politics. He was initially expected to step down at the end of last year, but News24 understands both Msimanga and December commitments got in the way. No clarity on future in case of loss Last year DA leader Mmusi Maimane and federal executive chairperson James Selfe confirmed that various conversations had taken place around Msimanga's continued stay as mayor, with Selfe admitting he had thought it ideal for the Tshwane mayor to step down while on the campaign trail. There has been no indication about whether stepping down would mean that Msimanga would join the Gauteng legislature should he lose out on the premier position, or whether he would return to Tshwane as mayor. ALSO READ: 'Msimanga is here to stay' - DA rejects reports as speculative in the extreme KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Tshwane mayor visits Pretoria train crash victims' families Tshwane Metro Mayor, Solly Msimanga, visited two families of the deceased from last week's Mountain View train accident.
Msimanga expressed his condolences and offered support with the funeral arrangements. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: Conterfeit goods confiscated in by-law enforcement operation Thirteen bags of counterfeit goods valued at R700 000.00 was confiscated in Tshwane on Wednesday. WATCH: Car-free zones piloted in Pretoria as part of Transport Month The City of Tshwane has created a temporary Car-Free Zone in the heart of Hatfield in Pretoria on Friday. WATCH: The church is bigger than Bushiri - ECG Church spokesperson Prophet Bushiri's Enlightened Christian Gathering church briefed the media on events following a deadly stampede at the church on December 28, 2018. WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. WATCH: Anti-racism protest shuts down Bronkhorstspruit During a protest against racism in Bronkhorstspruit on Tuesday, where the entire central business district of the small town was shut down, the ANC Youth League in Tshwane have made a call expropriate land belonging to racist farmers. WATCH: 'Edna Molewa's life was one of sacrifice, selflessness and service'  - Cyril Ramaphosa An official funeral service for the late Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa was held in Pretoria on Saturday.

President Cyril Ramaphosa delivered the eulogy at the Tshwane Events Centre. Outa, ANCGP and civil society groups march to union buildings against etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. Thousands marched through the streets of Tshwane on Friday morning. WATCH: Two police officers charged with murder of TUT student granted bail Two police officers were granted bail at the Soshanguve Magistrates Court on Tuesday. WATCH Police on the hunt for Tshwane CBD muggers.mp4 Video footage has surfaced of a group of men mugging a woman in the Tshwane CBD. Her terrified screams echo through the busy street. The ordeal is over in mere seconds. WATCH: TUT students march to the police ministry over student death Chaos erupted on Wednesday as around 300 students marched through the Pretoria CBD protesting over the death of a student who was allegedly shot by police last week.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.