Sesona Ngqakamba Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi. (Mduduzi Ndzingi, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi appealed to residents of Tsakane, Ekurhuleni to not vandalise the newly-constructed Menzi Primary School as he opened the facility on Wednesday. "Community leaders, I don't want to talk of all the things that happened whilst this school was being built. The only thing I will ask from you is to protect this school," Lesufi said. LIVE: 'It's a beautiful day when we start school' - Makhura addresses parents, pupils on first day Pupils used zinc shelters and other temporary structures as classrooms since the 1990s but on Wednesday - the start of the 2019 academic year - it was different story. The MEC opened the school and addressed the very first assembly at the new premises. The South African flag was hoisted next to that of the school before the national anthem was sung. Lesufi said the department invested R105m to ensure that the school was built. "I don't want to find the windows broken and gates stolen," he said. The MEC was accompanied by Gauteng Premier David Makhura and Infrastructure Development MEC Jacob Mamabolo. They conducted a tour of the school and viewed the foundation as well as the intermediate and senior phase blocks. They walked into the different classes and interacted with pupils from Grades R to 7. Trees were also planted. But Lesufi also had a message for the pupils: "My children, I have only one message for you. We can't have such a beautiful school and you don't respect your teachers." He warned that misbehaviour would not be tolerated and urged pupils and teachers to keep the school clean and neat. "In the absence of teachers, there is no school," he said. Last year, Lesufi and his department dealt with several incidents of violence and misconduct involving pupils who assaulted or abused teachers or fellow pupils. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg. WATCH: This 30-year-old family business is a school hotspot for Joburg families Gauteng schools open on Wednesday and parents are on the hunt for affordable school uniforms. WATCH: This father says outsourcing at Eskom is hurting his kids' future When Tshepang's* first child was born, he dropped out of school to seek work. He has worked as a contractor at various state entities. His current contract sees his salary filtered through two labour broking companies before it reaches him. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. Kids in Iraq camps dream big, but can't enroll in school Maareb has big dreams, but she may never get to realise them. Every day, when her friends attend class in the Iraqi displacement camp they call home, she stays behind. Slopes in the French Alps open in time for Christmas holidays It may have come a bit late this year but snowfall in the French Alps means the slopes at ski resorts are open in time for the start of school vacation. Parkland victim's father paints border wall against gun violence Venezuelan artist Manuel Oliver, whose 17-year-old son Joaquin Oliver was killed during the Parkland school shooting, paints a mural on the US-Mexico border fence in Tijuana, to raise awareness on the gun violence problem in the United States. TRAI mandates single price regime TRAI's new framework is a positive as it will benefit customers, says Punit Mishra of ZEEL Long despised, tattoos emerge from shadows in Tunisia Once widespread in rural Tunisia, tattoos have long been considered vulgar and associated with people who are poorly educated or who have gone off the rails. But now they are emerging from the shadows as young people get inked and take up courses ... New assault charges laid in St. Michael’s investigation Police laid assault charges against five teens on Wednesday in relation to two incidents at St. Michael's private school in Toronto. Four of the five teens were previously charged in a separate incident. Syrian refugee student attacked in a US school "You're lucky you're from another language because I will crush you b*tch."

A 15-year-old Syrian refugee in the US was attacked by another student in a school bathroom.

#US #refugee #attack School pathologist loses her job for refusing to sign a pro-Israel oath Bahia Amawi, an American citizen of Palestinian descent, lost her job in a Texas school because she refused to sign a pro-Israel oath. She is now filing a lawsuit in the Federal District Court in Austin. #US, #boycott, #Israel Prince Charles visits primary school for Christmas play Prince Charles visits Tetbury primary school Combat in the classroom A surge of patriotism in Poland has resulted in increased demand for military classes in high schools. The BBC joined one student, Doris for field training and combat lessons. Meet the teenager studying combat at school A surge of patriotism in Poland has resulted in increased demand for military classes in high schools. The BBC joined one student, Doris for field training and combat lessons. November WPI at 4.64% Manufacturing inflation at 4.21% vs 4.49% MoM. Primary articles inflation at 0.88% vs 1.79% MoM. Food inflation at -1.96% vs 0.64% MoM. Fuel price inflation at 16.2% vs 18.4% MoM. In Pakistan public education suffocates under surging population At the Tanjai Cheena school in northwest Pakistan students squeeze into makeshift classrooms where plastic tarps serve as walls and electricity is sparse, as a surging population overstretches the country's fragile education system. High school and university students protest in Paris Several hundred high school students are joined by university students at the Place Saint Michel in Paris to protest education reforms, including changes to crucial end-of-high school exams and access to higher education. WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. Aussie school kids lead mass coal mine protests Australian school children lead thousands of demonstrators nationwide calling for a halt on plans for Indian mining firm Adani to construct a controversial coal mine in the country's northeast. Christmas present from 1971 finally opened Adrian Pearce left a gift from his high school girlfriend Vicki Allen unopened for 47 years after she broke up with him. Allen says she didn’t realize Pearce’s feelings were so intense. Orangutan: Out of the cage and into the jungle On the Indonesian island of Sumatra, orangutans are being released into the wild. The female ape, Dora, who was raised in captivity, went to primate school at a reintroduction station, to prepare for release into the wild. French police arrest hundreds of students across the country French students have been blocking access to high schools across France in protest of President Emmanuel Macron's education reforms. #France #Franceprotests #giletsjaunes #Macron Teenager jailed for making hoax bomb threat to thousands of schools A teenager inspired by the Columbine High School massacre has been jailed after making bogus bomb threats to hundreds of UK schools and sparking an airport security scare.

George Duke-Cohan twice targeted schools in the UK and US with hoax messag... Paris high school vandalised as students protest Police block a street in central Paris where a high school was vandalized as French students protest across the country. Marseille high school students clash with police Thousands of high school students take to the streets in Marseille, as more and more join students protest against education reforms affecting university admission. Kevin Hart will host 2019 Oscars 'Night School' star Kevin Hart has been announced as the host of the 2019 Academy Awards, and he is delighted for "the opportunity of a lifetime" to be at the helm of the Oscars. Michelle Obama speaks at London girls' school Michelle Obama spoke to pupils in North London about the power of education. Sniper School: Elite NATO Shooters Train In The Austrian Alps You are watching Elite NATO Snipers conducting training in the Austrian Alps. Aussie kids skip school for mass climate protest Thousands of Australian students skip school to join nationwide protests demanding government action on climate change. Sister of Syrian refugee assaulted in the UK is also targeted This Syrian girl has been bullied, assaulted and she's even had her headscarf ripped off. The incident took place at the same school in the UK where her 15-year-old brother was choked and mockingly ""waterboarded"".
#bully, #racism, #refugee WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. Cardi B visits former elementary school Cardi B just shocked and surprised teachers and students at her old elementary school when she paid them a visit! Six sets of twins dominate one high school basketball team A feature on Wednesday (28th November) at Splendora high school in Texas, where six sets of twins have dominated the school's basketball schedule. Philippines court hands down first murder verdict against police in drug war A Philippine court on Thursday found three police officers guilty of murder for the killing of a 17-year-old high school student, the first such conviction in President Rodrigo Duterte's war on drugs. Philippine court jails police officers for drug war murder A Philippine court has found three police officers guilty of murder in the killing of a 17-year-old high school student last year. #Duterte #Philippines #drugwar Philippine court jails officers for drug war murder A Philippine court finds three police officers guilty of murdering a 17-year-old high school student last year, as part of President Rodrigo Duterte's war on drugs. Anne Kjaer Reichart of ReDI School of Digital Integration on scaling "Nail it before you scale it" -Anne Kjaer Reichart of ReDI School of Digital Integration on scaling her startup   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.