Ntwaagae Seleka Laerskool Schweizer-Reneke is caught in a race row after a photo a teacher took of a Grade 1 class showed black and white learners sitting separately. (Chekwane Tladi) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories North West education MEC Sello Lehari has assured parents concerned about their children's safety at the Schweizer-Reneke primary school where allegations of racism have surfaced that learning will resume fully on Friday morning. Following heightened tensions at the school, police have been deployed to patrol outside the premises. "We have put measures in place to monitor the situation and have been informed by the SGB (school governing body) that there are threats to burn the school," Lehari said. READ: More tension as parents and security guards clash outside Laerskool Schweizer-Reneke WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral. He assured parents that police would remain deployed to ensure that children could come to school without fear. The measures were put in place after a photograph of black and white Grade R pupils seated separately went viral on social media last week, sparking outrage. Teacher Elana Barkhuizen, who took the picture, was suspended after the image emerged. Another teacher who allegedly separated the children remains at the school. On Wednesday a parent asked the MEC for a guarantee that things would go back to normal. They claimed they were intimidated when they brought their children to school. "The SGB is arranging a meeting where we will address all parents and learners [to ensure them] that their safety is guaranteed," said Lehari. Pupils, parents to receive counselling Another parent said the incident at the school was unfortunate as it portrayed white people as racists. He said they felt left out in the entire process as parents. "We are investigating racism in all schools here in totality. As soon as our investigations are completed we will provide you with the report. We are taking this matter very seriously. We want your co-operation in fixing the situation," said Lehari. He promised to provide all pupils as well as parents with counselling. Thabiso Maolwane, whose child was among the four children who were photographed sitting at a separate desk, said he was delighted that the MEC had promised them counselling. He said he didn't see anything wrong with the picture. "The school explained to me that the separation was a temporary thing and black children would be reintegrated with white children later. "I am not happy with the suspension of Elana Barkhuizen because later that day, I saw a different picture where children were mixed together. "At first I thought my child's rights were violated until I saw the second picture," he said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  The anger propelling teachers into politics Over the past few months, massive teacher protests have shut down schools across the country. Now, the fight for education funding is prompting some to run for office. Broncos president: Finding 'new normal' critical for Humboldt Students returned to school in Humboldt, Saskatchewan, on Tuesday following Friday's bus crash that killed 15 people. The director of education for Greater Saskatoon Catholic Schools says the students were "happy to be together." Raqqa's schools resemble battlegrounds More than a year since the United States and its allies defeated Islamic State in the Syrian city of Raqqa, many of its schools still resemble battlegrounds that are unfit for purpose. Thousands of Los Angeles teachers striking Los Angeles teachers went on strike Monday after talks failed in the nation's second largest school disctrict. Schools remain open and the district superintendent said 'students are safe and learning'. Teacher strike delayed in Los Angeles The teacher union representing 35,000 Los Angeles members is postponing the start of a strike till next Monday. They had planned to strike Thursday, but the possibility of a court-ordered delay of the strike prompted the union move. Parents sue over district’s policy to arm teachers Parents filed a lawsuit to block a Pennsylvania school district from allowing teachers to carry guns in school, the latest in a debate playing out in many states over whether it's wise to arm educators to protect students from mass shooters. In Pakistan public education suffocates under surging population At the Tanjai Cheena school in northwest Pakistan students squeeze into makeshift classrooms where plastic tarps serve as walls and electricity is sparse, as a surging population overstretches the country's fragile education system. Silicon Valley - Can Games Create an Education Fit for the Future? Imagine a school where playing video games is encouraged during classes and may even replace exams. A new educational programme uses SimCity to test children on vital problem-solving skills. US schools walk out over gun violence Students were demanding gun legislation that promotes school safety, 19 years since the Columbine massacre. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. The Big Bang Fair offer 3D-printed school dinners Pupils get 3D-printed STEM school dinners as the The Big Bang Fair visits St Helens Primary School in Canning Town. Offering Cauliflower cogs and geometric fish and chips, BBF is using technology to encourage younger children into STEM careers. At least two dead in school bus highway collision At least two people are dead and 43 others injured after a school bus collides with a dumptruck on a highway. WATCH: Julius Malema on changing the constitution regarding land expropriation On 13 November in parliament, during the first day of the Joint Constitutional Review Committee deliberating a draft report on the possible review of Section 25 of the Constitution to allow expropriation of land without compensation. Attacker wounds 20 children at Beijing school Workers from Beijing's Criminal Investigation Department leave an elementary school after twenty children were wounded in an attack with three suffering serious injuries. Is this the most patriotic Canadian? High school teacher Dave Suchanek is so patriotic about Canada, he's created an alter ego: Flagman. Why a black man hugged a neo-Nazi skinhead A white supremacist walked into the middle of an anti-fascist rally - this is what happened next. Joel Plaskett performs song penned for Halifax janitors protest Musician Joel Plaskett says he was "inspired" to write a song in solidarity with a group of black Halifax janitors who were fired after alleging racial discrimination. Plaskett performed the song Thursday at an ongoing protest. Star Wars' John Boyega inspires kids to 'Train Like A Jedi' Star Wars actor John Boyega visits his former London primary school alongside double Olympic gold medallist Jade Jones to inspire kids to Train Like A Jedi with Change4Life. School teacher launches appeal for surrogate after bowel cancer A primary school teacher whose womb was shrivelled by radiation, has taken the unusual step of launching an online appeal for a surrogate - after treatment for bowel cancer at 29 left her unable to carry a baby. Thousands of white workers protest Sasol black scheme White employees of Sasol say the South African energy company is discriminating against them by offering a share scheme exclusively to black staff. French teachers protest against Macron reform plan Nearly one in two high school teachers, and one in four primary school teachers, go on strike against President Macron's plans to reform France's education sector and cut jobs - the first time all teaching unions have agreed to strike together sin... Arizona teachers go on strike Arizona is the latest state where teachers are walking off the job to demand better pay and more school funding. Royal wedding: Deaf teenager gets invite after community work Reuben Litherland, who was born deaf, has been invited to Harry and Meghan's wedding after tireless work helping the deaf community. Protests mark anniversary of Charlottesville race violence Marches against racism are taking place in the US, marking the one-year anniversary of a violent white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virgina. 

The violence that day cost the life of a young counter-protester and shocked the nation. Online learning at your own pace in Brazil In Brazil, schooling is compulsory for children between the ages of 7 and 14, but there is little state monitoring. WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. Prince Charles visits primary school for Christmas play Prince Charles visits Tetbury primary school School in the shadow of Grenfell Six months on, how pupils at one primary school are coping with the loss of a classmate and their homes. Boy with rare condition starts first day in primary school An "amazing" four-year-old boy who has had five major operations since he was born with a rare and life-threatening condition is starting his first day at primary school. Primary school PE scheme 'bypassed' by funding GAA and IFA coaches lose jobs as special primary school PE scheme is axed. Kate: I'm less sporty now I've got lots of babies The Duchess of Cambridge joined a tennis training session for the Wimbledon stars of tomorrow - then joked how she is less "sporty" with two children and a third on the way. Duchess of Cambridge calls for mental health support in primary schools The Duchess of Cambridge has given a speech at a symposium of leading academics and charities, where she discussed ways of making children more emotional and mentally resilient to help them in later life. Primary school damaged by major fire on eve of new term Firefighters are tackling a blaze at Roding Primary School on Hewett Road, Dagenham, London Fire Brigade said. School children help Theresa May birdwatch Theresa May used a pair of binoculars as she set out her vision for protecting the environment.

The Prime Minister went birdwatching with a group of primary school pupils to mark the launch of the 25-year strategy. 20 children injured in Chinese school attack A 49-year-old man injured 20 children with a hammer Tuesday inside a primary school in China's capital, the Xicheng district government said on its social media account. Three of the children have serious but non-life-threatening injuries. Trivia: 'Boyhood' For this week's trivial item, we'll be looking at perhaps one of the most unique "coming-of-age" films ever made, the 2014 masterpiece 'Boyhood'. The movie is a time-lapse study of the life of a boy named Mason, played by Ellar Coltrane. Primary School's unique weather forecast Snow-joke from the Saint Oliver Plunkett Primary School weather centre What do school children think a feminist is? To celebrate international women's day, children from the Burdett-Courts primary school explore the meaning of feminism. Cardi B visits former elementary school Cardi B just shocked and surprised teachers and students at her old elementary school when she paid them a visit! Pakistan's solar-powered schools for the underprivileged A 'SLUM' school run by Rohayl Varind is Pakistan's first solar night school. The Duchess of Cambridge gets a musical welcome to London school The Duchess of Cambridge is welcomed to Roe Green Junior school with a jaunty tune. On arrival, the children sang for the Duchess, who was launching a mental health programme. David Oakes: Schools should teach lesser known Shakespeare plays Victoria star David Oakes has said he would like to see the lesser known Shakespeare plays taught in schools.

The actor, best known for playing Prince Ernest in the ITV period drama, said an attempt should be made to broaden people's horizons, ra... Why Kenyan school children say 'no', loudly School girls and boys in Kenyan schools are being taught self defence and how to report sexual and physical attacks. Ed Sheeran slams music funding cuts Ed Sheeran has slammed cuts to music education and revealed he was "benefited hugely" from the music education provided at his state school. Powerlifting school teacher finds success at 50 Lucille Rowan is a weightlifter who won Commonwealth silver at powerlifting a year after first picking up a weight aged almost 50. Drake still texts his high school teacher Drake has revealed he still texts his high school teacher - despite dropping out of school to pursue his career - as she congratulated him for his recent chart success. Alec Baldwin teaches 'Trump School' Comedian Alec Baldwin headlined a state Democratic party banquet teaching school lessons about Donald Trump. Arizona educator becomes state teacher boss Spurred on by teacher protests, scores of teachers ran for office this fall, with many of them winning. They include Kathy Hoffman, who was sworn in Monday as Arizona's new Superintendent of Public Instruction.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.