Jeanette Chabalala Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi told the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture that members of the ANC in the North West had in the past laundered money through the facility's youth centres and allegedly used it for regional elections. Agrizzi revealed this on Friday during his third day of testimony. He said the Department of Social Development in the province had paid Bosasa for software programmes already in place at youth development centres. Agrizzi told inquiry chairperson Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo that the money was requested for running elections. WATCH: Former Bossasa COO unpacks the bribes Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi on Thursday detailed the money trail allegedly used for bribing state entities. READ: Inside Gavin's safe little black book details Bosasa's bribe stash bonuses says Agrizzi He added that part of the money would be paid to the official that had requested money for the elections. Agrizzi told the commission that Syvion Dlamini of Bosasa had previously requested that he attend a meeting at a stadium in Rustenburg. "The MEC, [I] cannot recall the name, was present. The MEC was a lady responsible for social development in the North West," he said. He said usually, the youth centre management would come to him and tell him that a certain individual had approached them. ANC to respond 'in due course' "Let's understand the scheme, to describe the process of the cash generation. A youth development centre being run and facilitated by Bosasa; they say to Bosasa, 'we need a software programme'?" advocate Paul Pretorius asked. Agrizzi said the social development department would pay Bosasa for the "software". Pretorius asked if the money was paid to Bosasa, and if part of the money was retained by Bosasa, and the rest was paid to the individual who requested it – and if that was used for elections. Agrizzi said that was the "excuse" given to him. Asked for comment, ANC acting national spokesperson Dakota Legwete said: "We will get a chance to go over the submissions and we will respond in due course." READ MORE: Why Agrizzi is spilling the beans now   WATCH: Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson emerges as 'kingpin of bribes' Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson has emerged as the absolute kingpin in the Bosasa empire of bribes, intimidation and cold hard cash. WATCH | 'Every single contract was tainted with bribes' - Agrizzi testifies #StateCaptureInquiry The second day of testimony by former Bosasa top boss Angelo Agrizzi in the commission of inquiry into state capture continues. ANALYSIS | #StateCaptureInquiry: Unpacking Agrizzi's testimony Watch as News24 investigative journalist Kyle Cowen and journalist Jeanette Chabalala unpack former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi's revelations at the state capture commission. WATCH: Bosasa spent between 'R4m and R6m a month' in cash bribes - Agrizzi at #StateCaptureInquiry Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi testifies at state capture inquiry The Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture resumed on Wednesday with former Bosasa employee Angelo Agrizzi on the witness stand. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan briefs South Africa on state of Eskom Eskom held a media briefing at 14:00 at Megawatt Park on Thursday to give an update on its operational challenges.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.