Correspondent Gideon Miller, 13.  (Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 13-year-old Grade 8 learner has been confirmed dead following a bus accident on the R555 near Laersdrift in Mpumalanga on Sunday afternoon. Beeld reported that Gideon Miller died from injuries sustained when the bus flipped over in heavy rains on its way from Steelpoort to Middelburg. Miller was a learner at HTS Middelburg and had been in the school for a mere five days, according to the report. Beeld quoted school principal Hoppie van Jaarsveld, who described the incident as tragic. READ: Bus carrying schoolchildren rolls over in Laersdrift, Mpumalanga On Monday, the school posted the following message on its Facebook page: "We would like to convey our deepest sympathy with the Miller family following the death of their beloved son and brother, Gideon Miller. "May the Lord bring you comfort and peace in this time of sorrow. May all the precious memories you shared with Gideon never fade. We carry you in our hearts, thoughts and prayers. "Our thoughts go out to the 13 other learners who were also involved in the accident. "Details of the funeral and memorial service to follow." According to Beeld, three other learners were admitted to hospital on Sunday and were discharged on the same day. The scene of the bus accident near Laersdrift on Sunday. (Facebook)    WATCH: Bus driver narrowly misses oncoming traffic while overtaking A Bokamoso bus has been caught on camera recklessly overtaking two vehicles on a busy road. WATCH: Intercape bus driver suspended after being filmed driving recklessly There have been a numerous fatalities and mishaps on SA's roads since the beginning of the festive season.

Now, as we enter the height of celebrations, more reports of risky driving and fatalities have emerged. WATCH: Four bus crashes in one day leave 150 injured, two dead in KZN Helicopter footage of a bus that crashed into a home in Tongaat, KwaZulu-Natal has emerged online.

According to the KZN emergency medical services, over 150 people suffered serious to moderate injuries in three other incidents in the province. WATCH: Flames engulf Kempton Park bus fleet Quick-acting firefighters in the east of Johannesburg were able to extinguish a blaze that engulfed a fleet of parked vehicles, late last week. WATCH: Limpopo accident leaves 26 dead, among them 2 children Two children are among the 26 people who died in a horror multi-vehicle collision on the N1 in Mookgopong outside Modimolle, Limpopo, on Friday.

Four people survived the crash and were taken to various hospitals for medical treatment. WATCH: South African paramedic dies in helicopter crash in the UAE A South African paramedic is among four people who died when a helicopter crashed in Ras al-Khaimah in the north eastern region of the United Arab Emirates.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.