Kaveel Singh WATCH: Home affairs officials caught on their phones as people queue to be helped The Department of Home Affairs has said it will investigate after officials were filmed using their cellphones while on duty. The Department of Home Affairs has issued a warning to two officials who were recorded using their cellphones while on duty after it found that there had been a power failure in their Tongaat office at the time. The officials faced severe backlash when a video of them using their phones on January 10 went viral, garnering a barrage of negative comments from social media users. Department spokesperson Siya Qoza on Friday said an investigation was conducted by KwaZulu-Natal manager Cyril Mncwabe who discovered that the duo were using their phones during a 20-minute power outage. He said the break in services was announced to clients and this is when the officials used their phones. ALSO READ: Ban home affairs officials from using cellphones at front desks – MPs "There were compelling reasons for the two officials to use their cellphones during the service break, but they should have excused themselves to attend to personal matters at the back office." Qoza said that when the officials spoke to investigators, they said they had used their phones at their desks so they could immediately resume work once their system came online. 'A second chance' "One was arranging for a child to be picked up from school and the other official was following up on repairs to his vehicle. They were to work overtime on the day." He said the officials acknowledged their mistake and voluntarily apologised for the "misjudgment". "Since there are no pending misconduct cases or investigations against them, and they render services diligently, it was concluded that they be given a written warning for their actions." Qoza said senior departmental officials would monitor the Tongaat office. "On the basis of the findings and recommendations, a second chance is justifiable in this regard as it would encourage our officials to always exercise good judgement and adhere religiously to departmental policies," director general Thulani Mavuso added. Special - Social media becoming more important for fashion The fashion world is ever changing. And we're not just talking about the clothes, the way they're marketed has seen a massive shift in the past couple of years as well. WATCH: 'It's me, former president Jacob Zuma' - Zuma joins social media Former president Jacob Zuma says he has decided to "move with times" and join various social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. Social Media - How Life Online Makes Us Smarter How is living online changing us? Author Clive Thompson argues that we shouldn’t fear the likes of Facebook and Twitter because it’s helping us to achieve things we couldn’t have done before. Gigi Hadid opens up about trolls Gigi Hadid feels deflated when social media users slate her for an outfit, which initially made her feel "good" about herself when she first put it on, Katy Perry: I'm a victim of social media Katy Perry says she is a "victim" of social media and has urged people to find a "balance" when it comes to using sites like Instagram, Facebook and Twitter.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.