Mxolisi Mngadi WATCH: Burning tyres, logs and truck light up Howick sky KwaZulu-Natal police say the violent protest that forced the closure of the N3 in the vicinity of Howick in KZN Midlands on Thursday night was sparked by the arrest of community members who had allegedly invaded a private property in the area. SA police. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Arrests for the alleged invasion of private property sparked the violent protests that led to the closure of the N3 in the vicinity of Howick in KZN Midlands on Thursday night, police have said. Spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said on Friday morning that community members embarked on a protest and blockaded the R617 and the N3, burning tyres and tree logs, after the arrest of the alleged trespassers. She said nine people were arrested after they allegedly trespassed on the property at about 18:00 on Thursday. She said that they invaded private property that did not belong to them. No structures were erected. "They fired shots at the police and also set alight a truck on the N3. They also threw stones at police and motorists," she said. There were reports of vehicles being damaged but no one opened a case, Gwala added. "Rubber bullets were used to disperse the unruly crowd. A case of public violence was opened for investigation at Howick SAPS (SA Police Service)," said Gwala. Those who were arrested, who were aged between 24 and 55, were expected to appear in the Howick Magistrate's Court on Friday. "The situation is quiet today [Friday] and police are monitoring the area," she said. The N3 Toll Concession, which is responsible for the management of the N3 Toll Route between Cedara in KwaZulu-Natal and Heidelberg in Gauteng, said all lanes on the N3 had been opened following the protest in Howick. KZN - N3 North (Update): #ProtestAction at Howick - stone throwing and at least one truck on fire - ROAD CLOSED - HEAVY QUEUE pic.twitter.com/qLM9B19DY8  Protest action between merrivale and howick midmar. N3 is closed due to stoning of vehicles. POP and enforcement on scene. N3 has become a NO-GO zone with the protesters moving onto both carriageways of the N3.Please avoid the N3 in the Merrivale area until further notice. pic.twitter.com/xxZEmvUu7h N3 near Howick. Several trucks torched. Police are on the scene. pic.twitter.com/zFkvPUc7ZF  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.