Pelane Phakgadi WATCH: Political parties say they are ready for the coming elections Political parties say that they are ready for the coming elections. Speaking to News24 at the IEC elections launch at the Gallagher Convention Centre, the leaders also urged those eligible to vote to go register on January 26 and 27. Political parties say that they are ready for the upcoming elections. Speaking to News24 at the Electoral Commission of SA (IEC) elections launch at the Gallagher Convention Centre, the leaders also urged those eligible to vote, to register on January 26 and 27. The elections will take place in May, but President Cyril Ramaphosa has not yet announced the exact date. At least 47 new political parties have been registered recently. That brings the number of registered parties to 285. About 30 other parties are still busy with the application process, the IEC said. Only parties that pay a R200 000 deposit to contest the national elections and R45 000 for each province, will be eligible.  PODCAST: A look at what made headlines in 2018 AUDIO - As 2018 draws to an end, it would be remiss if we didn't reflect on this year's top stories. 

The News24 editorial team joined senior politics reporter Tshidi Madia to discuss the stories, people and scandals that dominated the headlines. WATCH: A News24 2018 Festive Season special - politicians 'sing' All I Want For Christmas Is You News24 thought it apt that some of South Africa's politicians bring you a little festive cheer. 'Our relationship went beyond politics' - Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest Mandela memories Zulu Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest memories of Nelson Mandela, on the fifth anniversary of Nelson Mandela's death. Patricia de Lille on her lowest time in her politics career The past 18 months have seen battle royal in the DA in Cape Town, which reached a turning point on Wednesday when Patricia de Lille resigned as mayor and DA member amid a criminal investigation against her. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.