Jenna Etheridge WATCH: Cape pupil awarded for matriculating after surviving deadly fire Lance Minnies came close to losing his life in a deadly 2016 fire and almost gave up on his studies when he recovered. But it was the hope for a better future and the support of caring people at his school that pulled him through. Ntokozo Genu, 20 (Jenna Etheridge, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Lance Minnies came close to losing his life in a deadly 2016 fire and almost gave up on his studies when he recovered. But it was the hope for a better future and the support of caring people at his school that pulled him through and led to him proudly holding his matric certificate at a Special Ministerial Award ceremony on Thursday. He was one of three pupils to receive the award for excellence despite barriers to learning from Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schafer at Leeuwenhof. The ceremony recognised the achievements of both pupils and schools across the province. Minnies was in Grade 11 at AZ Berman High School in Mitchells Plain in June 2016 when the fire occurred. He was visiting church youth friends in Eastridge and had to be retrieved from the burning home. He sustained burns to 99% of his body. The fire killed eight people, including five children, and injured five others. 'I just wanted to go home' "I had several operations every week where I thought I would never make it. I [spent] five months in hospital. I was crying, there was a lot of pain I had to go through and I just wanted to go home," he explained on Thursday. Read: 'He is frightened and only a child’- mom of teen who survived blaze He thought it was the "beginning of new things" when he was eventually sent home. But he had to repeat Grade 11, a bitter pill he swallowed after school staff said everyone had to make sacrifices in life for things they wanted. "I was excited for matric because I am the first child of my mommy that matriculated of seven children." But in June last year, two years after the fire, he felt depressed, as if everything was too much to handle. 'We are going to help you' He told the school that he was packing it up. "The next day... teachers and the principal came to my house and said... 'you came too far just to leave you here. You are going to do your matric and we are going to help you where we can and you are not going to lay at home.'" "Although we didn't have a big house, not a lot of stuff, but I was thinking of my future." Also read: Matric results: Parliamentary committees praise provinces on improvement He said he didn't want his future children to want for anything. When his mother Rita heard the news that he had passed matric, he said she jumped with joy. Minnies hopes to study business management next year (2020). Relying on charity from strangers The other recipients of the Special Ministerial Award were Ntokozo Genu (Zola Senior Secondary School) and Trazeen Mbidlana (Hoërskool Grabouw). Genu, 20, was recognised for obtaining a bachelor's pass despite having no relatives in Cape Town and relying on the charity of his school and strangers. He comes from Qumbu in the Eastern Cape. He told News24 that he missed three weeks of school in his matric year because he had nowhere to stay. "A lady who knew my uncle took me to her home [in Site C, Khayelitsha] and my school provided nutrition," he said softly. The young man does not have a place to stay in Cape Town anymore but hopes to study towards a BCom Economics at UWC. Mbidlana received her award for pushing through despite being hospitalised for trauma last year. WATCH: 5 tips to acing your matric exams Matric examination got underway on Monday across the country. Here are a few tips for A+ results. Here are the alternate avenues to explore if your matric results weren't ideal Here are the alternate avenues to explore of your matric results weren't ideal Head boy and top achiever ready to 'get his future started' King David High School Linksfield's 2017 head boy, who earned seven distinctions in the IEB matric exams, has some advice for those entering their matric year. Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Matric pass rate should be at 100% - Wits professor Wits professor Marissa Rollnick says a matric pass rate of 100% is achievable. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. 'Consistency was key for me' - Rebecca Haines, top matric mathematics achiever Top matric mathematics achiever Rebecca Haines from Rustenburg High School For Girls in Cape Town says her excellent results came down to working consistently. Top SA matric says his rare disease motivated him to study medicine this year After missing almost two terms of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker still managed to be the overall top achiever of 2015. 'I strategised; I had a timetable and I stuck to it' - top matric achiever Mapula Sebati Thousands of matrics throughout the country will know their individual results on Wednesday. However, the top achievers for the class of 2015 were celebrated on Tuesday after the official announcement by Minister of Education, Angie Motshekga. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. WATCH: You have a second chance to ace matric Universities across the country are about to open up their doors. Although the national pass rate was 71. 5%, many students did not obtain the necessary results to get them into institutions of higher learning.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.