Jan Gerber SA elections (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The
National Council of Provinces (NCOP) adopted the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill
during a special sitting on Thursday. The bill will enable voters to
cast their votes even if their addresses aren't on the voters' roll yet. It
will also make it illegal for public funds to be used for political campaigning
– other than the public funds allocated to a party in terms of the Public
Funding of Represented Political Parties Act. While there were no parties that
voted against the bill, the EFF didn't support it and its MPs did not indicate
that they abstained. President Cyril Ramaphosa will
now have to sign the bill into law for it to take effect. DA MP from the North West, Chris
Hattingh, proposed a further amendment which would enable the Electoral
Commission of South Africa (IEC) to have overseas voting stations at any venue
it deemed fit – not only at embassies and high commissions. He said, for instance, the
thousands of South Africans living in Perth, Australia would have to travel
more than 3 000km to cast their votes in Canberra. "Is this fair?" he
asked. NCOP chairperson Thandi Modise
ruled that Hattingh's proposed amendments fell outside the scope of the bill
and were therefore constitutionally and procedurally out of order. She said it
constituted new amendments which were not in the current bill and which did not
fall under the purview of the NCOP. She suggested that he ask his
party to introduce a new bill in the National Assembly. Trying to bring
'bill through the back door' ANC MP from the Northern Cape, Dikgang
Stock, said there was no rational basis to require voting outside the territory
of South Africa. He said in the 2014 election, votes cast overseas amounted to
0.01% of the total votes cast. He said Hattingh had ample time
to engage with the IEC on the matter when the NCOP's select committee dealing
with the bill met with them. However, he did not. "It looks like the
honourable member is in elections mode. He wants to introduce a bill through
the back door," Stock said. IFP MP from KwaZulu-Natal, Mntomuhle
Khawula, welcomed the bill, particularly the provision that state funds could
not be used for electioneering purposes. He said it was one of the things the
IFP has been "confronting" the IEC about for many years. During the sitting, the NCOP also
adopted the Traditional and Khoi-San Leadership Bill. The Western Cape voted
against the adoption. DA MP from the Western Cape, Cathleen
Labuschagne, said the bill placed too much power in the leadership, who did not
sufficiently consult with communities. It was also discriminatory because it
would treat the Khoi-San differently, she claimed. ANC MP from the Eastern Cape, Tabiso
Wana, said the Khoi-San had been exploited for more than 200 years. "Today, as the Eastern Cape,
we are very pleased that today the Khoi-San will have their dignity," she
said. "Khoi-San, you are on your
own in the Western Cape," she said, taking aim at the province's stance.
Representatives of the Khoi-San community applauded in the public gallery.  'It's time for a new political order' - De Lille announces new political party Former Cape Town mayor and DA member Patricia de Lille says she is ready to serve her country under a new political movement. WATCH: DA leader Mmusi Maimane talks Solly Msimanga's future in the DA Although DA leader Mmusi Maimane refuses to commit to a number, when it comes to the party's ambitions ahead of the general elections next year, he makes it clear he has his eyes set on Gauteng. WATCH: Dan Plato elected as Cape Town mayor Dan Plato has been elected as Cape Town's new executive mayor during a special council sitting on Tuesday. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. Land expropriation: EFF says it's race issue; DA questions process Court action to prevent Parliament from amending the Constitution to allow for expropriation without compensation seems imminent as parties opposing an amendment to section 25 all sang from the same hymn sheet. WATCH: Patricia de Lille talks about her future and her journey as Cape Town mayor Her battle with the DA was like an abusive relationship, Patricia de Lille says. And the best decision when caught in such a situation is to walk away, "because it's not going to change". WATCH: Malema mocks Gigaba? 'We are not playing with ourselves, we are playing music' A video of Julius Malema is circulating on social media in which the EFF leader seemingly mocks Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba. WATCH: Democratic Alliance councillor Brett Herron resigns DA City of Cape Town MMC for Transport and Housing Brett Herron has resigned with immediate effect. Herron said that the DA is ignoring its manifesto to provide affordable housing and integration. WATCH: De Lille takes aim at 'rudderless' DA as she announces resignation On Wednesday 31 October, Cape Town Mayor announced her resignation.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.