Mxolisi Mngadi WATCH: Residents cry for help as man shot dead in Durban road A 32-year-old male suspect will appear in court on a charge of murder on Tuesday after a video shows Chatsworth community members crowding around a dead body in the street. Two men accused of the murder of an alleged drug dealer in Chatsworth, Durban on Sunday have appeared in the local magistrate's court on Tuesday. The pair had handed themselves over to police, separately, earlier on Tuesday after a disturbing video showing visibly distressed community members standing around a body of a dead man lying on the street was widely circulated on Facebook. National Prosecuting Authority provincial spokesperson Natasha Kara told News24 that Huzair Bux, 31, and Dilen Pillay, 25, would remain in custody until January 25. They were expected to apply for bail during their next court appearance, according to Kara. Police had initially said only one man was expected to appear in court after handing himself over to police in connection with the murder. The man also handed in a firearm which was believed to have been used in the shooting. However, provincial police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane later told News24 that the second accused also handed himself to police on Tuesday. WATCH: Residents cry for help as body found in Durban street "And they both appeared in court," he said. Zwane said the motive for the murder was still unknown at this stage. News24 earlier reported that in the video, it was suggested that the deceased was a drug dealer - something which Zwane was unable to confirm. "The deceased is believed to be in his mid-30s," said Zwane. He said information pertaining to the shooting would only come to light as police continued with their investigation. "We will get witness statements to shed more light on the motive and we call on any other members of the community who witnessed the murder to come forward so we can get more statements for our investigation," said Zwane.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.