Russel Molefe, Correspondent Limpopo Education MEC Ishmael Kgetjepe (far right) at the official opening of a new school in December 2016. (PHOTO: Supplied by Limpopo Mirror) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Limpopo may have improved its matric results in 2018, but this did not stop criticism from opposition political parties about it finishing last among the country's nine provinces. - Sign up here to get your 2018 matric results The EFF has gone as far as calling for the removal of Education MEC Ishmael Kgetjepe. On Friday, Kgetjepe provided the breakdown of the province's results, which he described as a "milestone achievement". He also recognised the best performing candidates, teachers, schools, districts and circuits at a ceremony in Polokwane. The province obtained a 69.4% pass rate, an improvement of 3.8 percentage points from the 2017 mark. A total of 76 730 candidates sat for the exams in 2018 and, of these, 53 254 passed. Bachelor passes increased from 18.4% in 2016, and 21.4% in 2017, to 23.5% in 2018. The province had earlier set itself a pass rate target of 80%. The overall national pass rate for 2018 was 79.4%, Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshekga announced on Thursday. This reflected a 2.9 percentage point increase from the 2017 pass rate of 76.5%. 'All of us were not happy' Kgetjepe said all stakeholders should understand the challenges and opportunities, with "a view of being part of solution providers in improving the education situation in the province". "Equally important is our continuous collaboration with parents. It is essential that parents become an integral part of their children’s education. "By so doing, parents become knowledgeable of their children’s strengths and weaknesses and ultimately are able to advise learners on the choice of subjects and possible careers," Kgetjepe said. - See our Matric Results page. He said the department had reorganised the districts to enhance their capacities, to bring resources closer to schools, and to fast track the delivery of quality education in the province. "During the announcement of the 2016 results, the then-MEC made a commitment to ensure we do not ever again experience a sharp decline in our Grade 12 results. At that time, our results had dropped from 65.9% in 2015, to 62.5% in 2016," Kgetjepe said. "All of us were not happy with that result. We all wanted to see our results increasing in line with [the] national trend. We could not accept a situation where many of our kids fail to pass their matric." However, he remained disappointed that three schools had enrolled a combined total of 26 matric learners, but had obtained zero percent pass rates. The schools are Senwane (12), Letshega-Malokwane (12) and Ramoroke (2). 'Limpopo is number last' "We have been saying that small schools are not viable and not sustainable educationally. Efforts of the department to rationalise these schools are often met with resistance and reasons which do not advance education and the interest of learners at these schools," Kgetjepe said. On underperforming schools, he said: "A team of officials has been assembled and will be strengthened." But EFF provincial chairperson Jossey Buthane said the province's performance was not good enough. "Limpopo is number last, failing to achieve at least 70%. This happened precisely because the department has no leadership. "The MEC has got no skill and capacity to run the department and does not inspire confidence. Whatever is done in that department is being run by outside forces. The primary concentration of these outside forces is on tenders that come from this department." Speaking to News24, DA provincial leader Jacques Smalle said, although the pass rate had increased in 2018, the education department's leadership could have done more to obtain a higher percentage. "We need more dedicated and competent officials and political leadership," he said.  WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. Revision, staying active, working hard: Cream of 2018 matric crop share their insights Some of the 2018 National Senior Certificate (NSC) top achievers say that they remain anxious on how well they have done ahead of the results being announced at Midnight on Thursday. WATCH: SAPS escort pupils to matric farewell in Nyala Making an entrance is an extra bonus point when making a statement at a matric farewell. One couple in particular, turned heads when they rocked up in a police Nyala van escorted by police officers at their farewell in Newcastle over the weekend. Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Head boy and top achiever ready to 'get his future started' King David High School Linksfield's 2017 head boy, who earned seven distinctions in the IEB matric exams, has some advice for those entering their matric year. Here are the alternate avenues to explore if your matric results weren't ideal Here are the alternate avenues to explore of your matric results weren't ideal Matric pass rate should be at 100% - Wits professor Wits professor Marissa Rollnick says a matric pass rate of 100% is achievable. 'Consistency was key for me' - Rebecca Haines, top matric mathematics achiever Top matric mathematics achiever Rebecca Haines from Rustenburg High School For Girls in Cape Town says her excellent results came down to working consistently. Matric exams: How does upward mark adjustment work? Upward mark adjustments usually take place when exam papers are proven to be more difficult than previous years. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. 'I strategised; I had a timetable and I stuck to it' - top matric achiever Mapula Sebati Thousands of matrics throughout the country will know their individual results on Wednesday. However, the top achievers for the class of 2015 were celebrated on Tuesday after the official announcement by Minister of Education, Angie Motshekga. Top SA matric says his rare disease motivated him to study medicine this year After missing almost two terms of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker still managed to be the overall top achiever of 2015. WATCH: You have a second chance to ace matric Universities across the country are about to open up their doors. Although the national pass rate was 71. 5%, many students did not obtain the necessary results to get them into institutions of higher learning. 'The bigger plan is to become president,' says top matric performer Tumelo Mashigo, part of the class of 2017, hopes to one day be president.

The 18-year-old was the second best performing learner with special needs among the most recent matriculants and hopes to make the world a better place one day. WATCH: 5 tips to acing your matric exams Matric examination got underway on Monday across the country. Here are a few tips for A+ results.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.