Nompilo Kunene Top achieving matric pupil from Mconjwana High School Amahle Ndlovu embraces her teacher and head of the science department at the school, Nokuthula Ndlovu.  (Ian Carbutt) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Despite being one of three children surviving on her grandmother’s pension, Amahle Ndlovu was able to obtain distinctions in all her seven subjects. The Mconjwana High School pupil, who stays in the rural area of KwaDulela near Mpophomeni, was lost for words to describe how she felt. “It was very tough, but I am just happy that all my hard work paid off,” she said. - Sign up here to get your 2018 matric results Ndlovu’s parents died before she started school and she was left in the care of her grandmother, who she says has dedicated her entire life to making sure she has everything she needs. “We don’t have much at home, but my grandmother always made sure I had everything I needed, especially if it was school related. She even ended up in debt ensuring I had everything I needed,” Amahle said. In addition to the tough financial problems at home, the teenager was also faced with a lack of resources at school, which made it difficult for her and her classmates to learn properly. “We don’t have a lab at school and we always had challenges when we had to do science practicals. “Sometimes we went to the Midlands Community Centre and sometimes we moved on from the topic without having done the required experiments,” she said. Soft-spoken Amahle said she was excited about the year ahead, especially after she learned her matric results were excellent. “I would like to study medicine and have applied to several universities. My only worry now is getting a bursary as I have no means of affording tuition. “Despite that I am really happy about everything and want to continue making my grandmother proud,” she said. - See our Matric Results page. Ndlovu told The Witness that her grandmother had broken down and cried when she heard that she was among the top achievers. “She’s very happy. I am also happy and glad that I have set a positive example to the younger children at home that listening to uGogo pays off. “I want to work even harder so that I too can take care of her like she has taken care of me. “If I go far away from home this year to study I will carry her in my heart just like she has carried me my whole life,” said Amahle. She advised other youngsters who also come from underprivileged homes to use the opportunity of going to school well. “It’s really up to you to work hard and prosper,” she added.  SA's top matriculant missed half the school year due to a rare disease After missing almost six months of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker managed to nab the coveted spot of SA's best matriculant. Revision, staying active, working hard: Cream of 2018 matric crop share their insights Some of the 2018 National Senior Certificate (NSC) top achievers say that they remain anxious on how well they have done ahead of the results being announced at Midnight on Thursday. WATCH: SAPS escort pupils to matric farewell in Nyala Making an entrance is an extra bonus point when making a statement at a matric farewell. One couple in particular, turned heads when they rocked up in a police Nyala van escorted by police officers at their farewell in Newcastle over the weekend. Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Head boy and top achiever ready to 'get his future started' King David High School Linksfield's 2017 head boy, who earned seven distinctions in the IEB matric exams, has some advice for those entering their matric year. Here are the alternate avenues to explore if your matric results weren't ideal Here are the alternate avenues to explore of your matric results weren't ideal Matric pass rate should be at 100% - Wits professor Wits professor Marissa Rollnick says a matric pass rate of 100% is achievable. 'Consistency was key for me' - Rebecca Haines, top matric mathematics achiever Top matric mathematics achiever Rebecca Haines from Rustenburg High School For Girls in Cape Town says her excellent results came down to working consistently. Matric exams: How does upward mark adjustment work? Upward mark adjustments usually take place when exam papers are proven to be more difficult than previous years. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. 'I strategised; I had a timetable and I stuck to it' - top matric achiever Mapula Sebati Thousands of matrics throughout the country will know their individual results on Wednesday. However, the top achievers for the class of 2015 were celebrated on Tuesday after the official announcement by Minister of Education, Angie Motshekga. Top SA matric says his rare disease motivated him to study medicine this year After missing almost two terms of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker still managed to be the overall top achiever of 2015. WATCH: You have a second chance to ace matric Universities across the country are about to open up their doors. Although the national pass rate was 71. 5%, many students did not obtain the necessary results to get them into institutions of higher learning. 'The bigger plan is to become president,' says top matric performer Tumelo Mashigo, part of the class of 2017, hopes to one day be president.

The 18-year-old was the second best performing learner with special needs among the most recent matriculants and hopes to make the world a better place one day. WATCH: 5 tips to acing your matric exams Matric examination got underway on Monday across the country. Here are a few tips for A+ results.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.