Ntwaagae Seleka Die polisie het Maandag hoë sigbaarheid voor die Le-Bon-bakkery gehandhaaf. Foto: Lulama Zenzile Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories After nearly a week on the run a 24-year suspect has been arrested for his alleged involvement in the killing of an Eastern Cape police officer. The suspect was arrested on Sunday at his parents' home in Algoa Park, Port Elizabeth, by the Hawks' serious organised crime investigation unit following a manhunt. His arrest came a day after the funeral of Constable Dwane Kemp, 31, who died last Monday following a shootout between police and five armed robbers. Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said members of the Port Elizabeth flying squad responded to a complaint of an armed robbery in progress at a bakery on the corner of Parliament and Rose streets. "When police arrived at the scene shots were fired and officers returned fire. Four of the suspects who were in the shop were shot dead during the exchange of gunfire. The fifth suspect managed to escape," he said. Three firearms were recovered at the scene and have been sent for ballistic testing to establish if they have been used in other crimes. Mulaudzi said the suspect is expected to appear in court on Tuesday on charges of murder, attempted murder, business robbery, possession of a firearm without a licence and possession of ammunition without a licence to possess a firearm capable of discharging such ammunition. READ: 4 robbery suspects shot dead, cop wounded in PE bakery shootout The national head of the Hawks, Lieutenant General Godfrey Lebeya hailed the arrest as a significant breakthrough in the fight against police killings. During Kemp's funeral on Saturday, Police Minister Bheki Cele called on police officers to use the "tools" given to them responsibly and decisively when executing their duties and to do so within the ambit of the law. WATCH | Wife, colleagues pay tribute to metro cop killed by taxi A Durban metro police officer, who was run over and killed while on duty outside the Galleria Mall in Amanzimtoti, will be laid to rest on Monday morning. WATCH: Police arrest KZN man who threatened to blow up office workers Police have arrested a KwaZulu-Natal man who threatened to blow up office workers with a bomb. WATCH: Agrizzi claims he packed R50 000 a month for Minister Mokonyane Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi told the Zondo Commission that the company catered for ANC rallies and paid for the ruling party's birthday cake. Agrizzi was testifying about the relationship between Bosasa and Cabinet minister Nomvula Mokonyana   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.