Nompilo Kunene Nqobile Nzimande with her parents, Mshushisi and Phumzile. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Local teenager Nqobile Nzimande felt “honoured” to be invited by Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga to the Top Achievers Awards in Midrand, Johannesburg, on Thursday evening. The pupil from St John Paul 2 High School (formally known as Langsyde High), in Elandskop, bagged distinctions for her seven subjects. Speaking to The Witness before she received her award, Nqobile (16), from KwaDeda in Taylor’s Halt, said she was still in shock as she had not seen her results. “My main goal was to study hard to ensure I get a university entry. I never thought I’d be receiving a national academic award,” she added. - Sign up to receive your matric results and you could win R10 000! Nqobile received the phone call inviting her to the awards ceremony on New Year’s Eve while relaxing at home. She said she never thought that a girl like her, who comes from “a poor and neglected community”, would receive such a prestigious invitation. “Every year I used to watch the awards ceremony with my family on TV, but I honestly never thought that one day I would also be on TV receiving those prestigious awards,” she laughed. She added that she was thankful to both her parents for supporting and believing in her. The teenager plans to study actuarial science at the University of Cape Town. - See our Matric Results page. Her mother, Phumzile, said despite knowing that her daughter was capable of obtaining outstanding results, she was stunned by the invitation. “Since primary school some of her teachers used to tell me how smart she was. “Sometimes it scared me because I thought my child would go crazy from being as smart as everyone said she was,” she said. Phumzile added that it was her husband, Mshushusi, who had instilled the love for learning in their daughter. “My husband is a teacher and he used to teach her English and maths even before she started school. Nqobile spoke fluent English before she went to school. “She was able to solve long division maths problems in Grade 1 and used to be so eager to learn with her father,” she said. The proud mother added that while she and her husband are happy about their daughter’s performance, they are sad that she might go and study far away from home. Revision, staying active, working hard: Cream of 2018 matric crop share their insights Some of the 2018 National Senior Certificate (NSC) top achievers say that they remain anxious on how well they have done ahead of the results being announced at Midnight on Thursday. WATCH: SAPS escort pupils to matric farewell in Nyala Making an entrance is an extra bonus point when making a statement at a matric farewell. One couple in particular, turned heads when they rocked up in a police Nyala van escorted by police officers at their farewell in Newcastle over the weekend. Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Head boy and top achiever ready to 'get his future started' King David High School Linksfield's 2017 head boy, who earned seven distinctions in the IEB matric exams, has some advice for those entering their matric year. Here are the alternate avenues to explore if your matric results weren't ideal Here are the alternate avenues to explore of your matric results weren't ideal Matric pass rate should be at 100% - Wits professor Wits professor Marissa Rollnick says a matric pass rate of 100% is achievable. 'Consistency was key for me' - Rebecca Haines, top matric mathematics achiever Top matric mathematics achiever Rebecca Haines from Rustenburg High School For Girls in Cape Town says her excellent results came down to working consistently. Matric exams: How does upward mark adjustment work? Upward mark adjustments usually take place when exam papers are proven to be more difficult than previous years. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. 'I strategised; I had a timetable and I stuck to it' - top matric achiever Mapula Sebati Thousands of matrics throughout the country will know their individual results on Wednesday. However, the top achievers for the class of 2015 were celebrated on Tuesday after the official announcement by Minister of Education, Angie Motshekga. Top SA matric says his rare disease motivated him to study medicine this year After missing almost two terms of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker still managed to be the overall top achiever of 2015. WATCH: You have a second chance to ace matric Universities across the country are about to open up their doors. Although the national pass rate was 71. 5%, many students did not obtain the necessary results to get them into institutions of higher learning. 'The bigger plan is to become president,' says top matric performer Tumelo Mashigo, part of the class of 2017, hopes to one day be president.

The 18-year-old was the second best performing learner with special needs among the most recent matriculants and hopes to make the world a better place one day. WATCH: 5 tips to acing your matric exams Matric examination got underway on Monday across the country. Here are a few tips for A+ results.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.