Correspondent Margaret van Wyk. (Martin de Kock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Margaret van Wyk, the hockey mom from Schweizer-Reneke who caused a stir in 2016 when she accidentally sent a nude pic to a WhatsApp group, has been divorced, Sunday weekly Rapport reported. According to that newspaper, various occupants of the embattled North West town - which was rife with racial tension last week - told its reporter that Margaret and her husband Chris had parted ways. In July 2016, Margaret sent a picture of her vagina to a WhatsApp group for hockey moms at the local school. Upon realising her error, she apologised and claimed the picture was meant for Chris. She then proceeded to ask Chris, via the same group, whether he was on his way home. A screen shot of the picture and responses was circulated widely on social media. At the time, Margaret told YOU magazine that she was "in a dark place" and got nasty messages from people day and night.She said her children – especially her youngest child – were destroyed. "I only sleep an hour at night, then I'm laying there and thinking. I didn't think people are able to go that far, that people are willing to break your life in pieces, and when they're finished with you and it's not enough, they take on your husband and children," said Margaret, who broke down during the interview. Rapport quotes an unnamed source who said: "Chris still lives on his smallholding outside of town, but Margaret has moved to the town itself. They were divorced last year and she [Margaret] moved to town at the end of 2018. Poor Chris could never deal with the story." During her interview with YOU, Margaret denied that the photo was meant for someone other than her husband. A source told Rapport that Margaret had grown "attached" to another man in town. The paper could not elicit responses from the former couple. Last week, Schweizer-Reneke was on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral, News24 reported. The photo was posted on social media on Wednesday – the first day of the 2019 academic year – and soon became the centre of debate on racism and race relations, both in Schweizer-Reneke and South Africa at large. This led to protests outside the school and the suspension of a teacher. On Friday, many parents kept their children at home.  WATCH: Cape pupil awarded for matriculating after surviving deadly fire Lance Minnies came close to losing his life in a deadly 2016 fire and almost gave up on his studies when he recovered. But it was the hope for a better future and the support of caring people at his school that pulled him through. WATCH: Grade 1 pupil gets ready for big school Starting Grade 1 is a big step for little ones. For Luca (6), getting ready for school took quite some time on Wednesday morning, but he soon got into the swing of things. From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg. WATCH: This 30-year-old family business is a school hotspot for Joburg families Gauteng schools open on Wednesday and parents are on the hunt for affordable school uniforms. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. Land grabs have taken over Malboro Gardens Land grabs have taken over Malboro Gardens in Gauteng, while the local ward councilor has no interest in resolving the issue, a disgruntled resident alleges.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.