Lucas Nowicki Sign language has been included as a subject for matric for the first time. (Lucas Nowicki, GroundUp) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Sign language was included as a subject for the first time in the 2018 National Senior Certificate exams, in what the Dominican School for the Deaf described as a major victory for the deaf community, GroundUp has reported. South African Sign Language (SASL) was recognised by the Department of Basic Education as an official home language in 2018. According to Cindy Rutter, the principal at the Dominican School for the Deaf in Wynberg, four pupils in the Western Cape took the 2018 sign language exam. "They had to do bridging courses in Grades 9, 10, 11. They had to learn what kids learn when they do English or Afrikaans throughout school. Sign language has its own grammar and structure, so from Grade 9 they had to catch up," said Rutter. READ: 2 Western Cape schools to offer Sign Language as matric subject For the final exam in sign language, pupils worked in closed-off booths where they watched questions in sign language before taking videos of themselves signing answers. "They watch the question, sign the answer and then file it [on the laptop]," said Rutter. She said a challenge implementing the new policy was access to resources. This was the first time students were studying SASL as a home language so there were no textbooks on sign language as a home language, or former students who had studied SASL in high school to draw on. Everything had to be developed from scratch. Language as a tool for empowerment and inclusion Rutter said the curriculum was limited but would develop. Among the resources to be developed were deaf poets and storytellers recording their stories for deaf pupils to study. Rutter stressed the importance of language as a tool for empowerment and inclusion. She said the recognition of sign language as a home language for matric put "a minority group on the map". "It is a great victory for us. It gives confidence to deaf people because their language is recognised," said Rutter. Jabulane Blose, CEO of South African National Deaf Association (Sanda), which promotes and advances the rights of deaf people, labelled the new policy "a major milestone in the consolidation of the rights of deaf people to balanced and accessible education". But Blose highlighted challenges with the implementation of SASL as a home language, including:  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Robert Gumede gifts his son a Porsche for passing matric Business tycoon Robert Gumede has gifted his 18-year-old son with a Porsche GT3, retailing at around R3 million, for passing matric. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. Revision, staying active, working hard: Cream of 2018 matric crop share their insights Some of the 2018 National Senior Certificate (NSC) top achievers say that they remain anxious on how well they have done ahead of the results being announced at Midnight on Thursday. WATCH: DIY stress balls to get you through your final stretch of exams Check out these DIY stress balls. WATCH: SAPS escort pupils to matric farewell in Nyala Making an entrance is an extra bonus point when making a statement at a matric farewell. One couple in particular, turned heads when they rocked up in a police Nyala van escorted by police officers at their farewell in Newcastle over the weekend. Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Head boy and top achiever ready to 'get his future started' King David High School Linksfield's 2017 head boy, who earned seven distinctions in the IEB matric exams, has some advice for those entering their matric year. Here are the alternate avenues to explore if your matric results weren't ideal Here are the alternate avenues to explore of your matric results weren't ideal Matric pass rate should be at 100% - Wits professor Wits professor Marissa Rollnick says a matric pass rate of 100% is achievable. 'Consistency was key for me' - Rebecca Haines, top matric mathematics achiever Top matric mathematics achiever Rebecca Haines from Rustenburg High School For Girls in Cape Town says her excellent results came down to working consistently. Matric exams: How does upward mark adjustment work? Upward mark adjustments usually take place when exam papers are proven to be more difficult than previous years. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. 'I strategised; I had a timetable and I stuck to it' - top matric achiever Mapula Sebati Thousands of matrics throughout the country will know their individual results on Wednesday. However, the top achievers for the class of 2015 were celebrated on Tuesday after the official announcement by Minister of Education, Angie Motshekga. Top SA matric says his rare disease motivated him to study medicine this year After missing almost two terms of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker still managed to be the overall top achiever of 2015. WATCH: You have a second chance to ace matric Universities across the country are about to open up their doors. Although the national pass rate was 71. 5%, many students did not obtain the necessary results to get them into institutions of higher learning. 'The bigger plan is to become president,' says top matric performer Tumelo Mashigo, part of the class of 2017, hopes to one day be president.

The 18-year-old was the second best performing learner with special needs among the most recent matriculants and hopes to make the world a better place one day. WATCH: 5 tips to acing your matric exams Matric examination got underway on Monday across the country. Here are a few tips for A+ results. A-level results day: The most common questions answered A-level results day: The most common questions answered by experts from the Exam Results Helpline. Tokyo medical school cut entry scores to block women Tokyo Medical University deliberately cut women's entry exam scores to stop them getting in. And that's been going on for at least the past decade, the university's own internal investigation has found.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.