Sarah Evans On stage at the annual Kgosi Mampuru II commemoration day.  (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former president Jacob Zuma came under fire from the ANC's elections head Fikile Mbalula on Saturday for attending an official government event in what could be seen as a breach of protocol. Zuma, via his official Twitter account, posted pictures of himself on stage at the annual Kgosi Mampuru II commemoration day at the Try Again Sports Ground in Limpopo. Today we honoured Kgoši Mampuru II at the Try Again Sports Ground, Limpopo - Kgoši Mampuru II Annual Commemoration Day pic.twitter.com/CYMMhFdX9b  He is seen sitting with other dignitaries, traditional leaders and correctional services minister, advocate Michael Masutha, who was the keynote speaker. On Twitter, Mbalula questioned whether this was appropriate, given that this is the kind of event which would ordinarily be attended by the president. President Cyril Ramaphosa has been on a state visit to India, where he was invited as the chief guest of that country's 70th Republic Day Parade. But cde President is this the right thing to do unless u are delegated Msholozi? U were a President bfo is this the right protocol ? To go around addressing events that should b addressed by a seating President?  UDM leader Bantu Holomisa chimed in, and questioned why Zuma would be sent to an official event when the ANC recalled him "because of corruption". Mbaks is correct . ANC told the world that they are removing Nxamalala from office because of corruption among others. Today they talk of renewal, new dawn,etc. Clarity is needed here. Must Mbaks, as head of elections deploy a crime suspect 2 campaign 4 ANC? A principled posn.  Other official guests at the event were public service and administration minister Ngoako Ramatlhodi, deputy labour minister Phathekile Holomisa and national commissioner of correctional services Zach Modise. Zuma later responded, saying that he preferred that Mbalula did not ask him questions relating to ANC policy matters on Twitter, but that he would be interested in discussing the matter further away from social media. Comrade Mbalula, I am certain that you are not supposed to ask me such a question through twitter as you are inviting me to ask you questions on your question. This would lead to a conversation between you and I, either you educating me on ANC policy or vice versa. 1/3     Zuma en Ramaphosa luidkeels ontvang in KwaZulu-Natal Oudpres. Jacob Zuma en pres. Cyril Ramaphosa is luidekeels ontvang deur ANC-ondersteuners by die Ohlange Stadion in KwaZulu-Natal voordat Ramaphosa 'n verklaring voorgelees het. Zuma on land: Less debate, more nationalisation Former President Jacob Zuma said there is too much debate about land expropriation without compensation to his liking, and suggested that land should be nationalised. Journalists, supporters and family arrive for J. Zuma's hearing Journalists along with supporters and relatives of former South African President Jacob Zuma arrive at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of registry ... WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma case postponed, Jacob Zuma, BLF show support Duduzane Zuma appeared briefly in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Friday. WATCH: Jacob Zuma arrives at court to support son Duduzane Former president Jacob Zuma arrived at the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday show support for his son Duduzane, who has been charged with two counts of culpable homicide. South Africa's Zuma says he will resign 'with immediate effect' South Africa's President Jacob Zuma has said he will resign "with immediate effect".

Mr Zuma made the announcement late on Wednesday in a televised address to the nation. S Africa 'captured by corrupt elements' South Africa's President Zuma feels "anxious" about his future, says ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. The Zuma presidency: Scandals and successes Jacob Zuma has faced some controversies during his time as ANC leader.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.