Tshidi Madia A group of Zimbabwean people protesting outside Zimbabwe's embassy in Pretoria. (File, Alex Mitchley/News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The ANC has called upon the millions of Zimbabweans who had made South Africa their home to get involved in turning around their country. During a media briefing at the party's headquarters in Johannesburg, on Tuesday, the ANC said it had hoped sanctions against Zimbabwe by the United States and the United Kingdom would have been lifted following that country’s elections in 2018, however that did not happen. ALSO READ: Ramaphosa says lift Zimbabwe sanctions “Despite the challenges that came immediately after (the elections) with the deaths of some people we thought that those who had placed sanctions would look at Zimbabwe differently, especially after the SADC and the AU had sent people there to monitor,” said Lindiwe Zulu, who is the party’s chair of the subcommittee on international relations. WATCH: Mnangagwa and and his gangster must leave Zimbabwe alone - Zimbabweans A number of protesters marched to the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria on Wednesday in solidarity with their families who've been affected by the total shutdown in Zimbabwe. She said South Africa had approached those who had sanctions against the country, but this had not yielded anything. Zulu asked Zimbabweans living in South Africa to get involved in turning around their country. “We have got millions of Zimbabweans living in South Africa. We would like to see them being involved in the resolution of the conflict in Zimbabwe,” said Zulu. Violent demonstrations broke out last week in which at least 12 people were killed. Hundreds were also taken into police custody in what has been seen as an attempt by authorities to clamp down on the protests. Zimbabweans took to the streets, to shut down their country after its government announced a steep increase in the price of fuel. READ: Zimbabwe rights commission says 8 killed Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa, who was mostly abroad throughout the turmoil, cut his trip short this week, opting to return home, rather than to meet with other world leaders in Davos at the World Economic Forum. Zulu said the South African government had been engaging with Zimbabwe and would continue working with its neighbour to seek answers, while the ANC would also continue engagements with Zanu-PF and other liberation movements on the continent on ways to address Zimbabwe’s growing challenges. “When a house is burning next door, you don’t fold your arms and say its got nothing to do with me. When the economy of Zimbabwe is not operating well, it has an impact on South Africa’s economy, on businesses not run by government and those South Africans operating in Zimbabwe,” said Zulu. She called for an inclusive approach led by Zimbabwe. WATCH: Ramaphosa calls on EU to lift sanctions still in place against Zimbabwe Zimbabwe was on the agenda in talks President Cyril Ramaphosa had with European Union (EU) leaders on Thursday. Zimbabwe protests after a 150 percent fuel price increase People in Zimbabwe took to the streets in the main cities of Harare and Bulawayo to protest a massive fuel price hike announced by the government. #Zimbabwe #protest #fuel Protests erupt as Zimbabwe awaits poll result Police have clashed with stone-throwing protesters on the streets of Harare, with reports one person has been shot dead. Opposition supporters are angry with a delay in the results of Zimbabwe's election, which they say is a sign it was rigged. Fuel price hike sparks protests in Zimbabwe Police have used teargas as anger over a fuel price hike in Zimbabwe, and over the wider economic crisis, spilled onto the streets. Village in the city tries to save Zimbabwe traditions Children entering a hut in a suburb of Zimbabwe's capital gaze in wonder at objects foreign to them -- ancient farm tools, pottery, even the grass roof and reed mats on which they are asked to sit. A bespectacled elderly woman claps her hands to g... Surviving in Zimbabwe's cashless economy One of the most pressing issues ahead of Zimbabwe's election on Monday (July 30) is a severe lack of U.S. dollars - forcing many to adopt parallels methods of paying for their daily needs. Zimbabwe: Inflation, famine and sanctions The recent history of a country in turmoil. Turmoil in Zimbabwe as new tax forces rush on goods The effects of a new tax on money transfers is taking hold in Zimbabwe. The new levy imposed last week has been met by public outcry. Finance minister Mthuli Ncube said last week the 2 percent tax would be used for roads and the health and educati... Zimbabwe's ruling ZANU-PF part holds annual conference Zimbabwe's ruling ZANU-PF part holds annual conference  in Esigodini with a speech from President Emmerson Mnangagwa. Zimbabwe hopes mining will unearth foreign cash President Emmerson Mnangagwa attended the groundbreaking for a new platinum mine in Zimbabwe on Tuesday - what he sees as a flagship investment that shows the country is open to foreign business. Fury as Zimbabwe doubles fuel prices Protesters took to the streets of the capital over the government's sudden fuel price increase.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.