Jenni Evans WATCH: Fire engulfs Lion's Head Families living in Sea Point, Cape Town evacuated their homes on Sunday evening as the flames that engulfed the lower slopes of Lion's Head near Quarry Hill were coming down on them. Firefighters keep a close eye on the Lions' Head fire. (Jenni Evans, News24 via Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town's firefighters were praised for their hard work as they put out a fire during a night of fear for residents living near Signal Hill and Lion's Head. "I cannot stress enough how incredible they were," said Spencer Jay, a retired advertising specialist from London. Standing outside his flat on Quarry Hill Road, near where the fire is suspected to have started, he said the alarm was raised for residents after they smelt smoke and then spotted flames. "It was a terrible sound. The wind was howling, the klaxon was sounding and the flames were licking the edges of the firebreak," said Jay. "It was like Dante's Inferno," he said, referring to Italian writer Dante Alighieri's poem. "The air was thick with smoke and detritus. There was shit everywhere in the air, to be honest with you," he said letting down his guard for a moment. Vehicles moved to safety The residents gathered downstairs, while some wet surrounding bushes with the building's fire hose. The firefighting crew's leaders asked them to move their vehicles out of the garages underneath the flats as a precaution. "With thousands of litres of petrol in those cars, that was very good advice," said Jay. Residents gathered in a field further down Quarry Hill Road where they had moved their cars while firefighters brought the blaze under control. The fire was stopped just before it hit the first line of houses and school buildings in the area. "They are so incredible, these guys," he said of the fire crews still working in the heat on the steep slopes on Monday to dampen the area. Road closed Spencer said he and his wife, Sally, were inundated with offers of somewhere to sleep for the night, but they decided to brave it out. Eventually they and other residents were allowed to re-enter their homes, but they couldn't sleep. "We drank countless cups of tea and coffee," he said. The famous kramat on the rump of Lion's Head was also protected, with flames getting as close as the resting benches, but not affecting the historic structure itself. Fire trucks and spotters on Monday still dotted the area, while crews in heavy protective clothing heaved hoses over blackened earth. However, the seriousness of the situation is lightened by a moment of mirth as one official atop Quarry Hill Road chirps to another firefighter, seemingly missing his mark. "You're not watering your garden down there," he says. They chuckle. Signal Hill Road remained closed on Monday as firefighters monitored the remaining fire lines and potential flare ups.     KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH:  Fire rages out of control near Hermanus Firefighters from the Overstrand Municipality have spent the last 24 hours fighting an out of control fire about 10km from Hermanus in the Western Cape. WATCH: From the cockpit - Pilot's view of the Garden Route fires Firefighting efforts intensified on the Garden Route in the Southern Cape this past weekend, as fires raged, leaving destruction in their wake. WATCH: Fire rages through Paarl mountains Firefighters are battling a fire raging through the mountains in Paarl, Western Cape. WATCH: Western Cape firefighters end gruelling day with uplifting song A group of firefighters returned to their base at the Crassula hall in Betty's Bay on Friday, with song and dance. WATCH: Firefighters leave Overstrand with song and dance The firefighters who tirelessly battled to bring a raging fire in the Overstrand area under control have held a parade to thank the community for their support. It's time to involve the entire security cluster - Blade Nzimande after latest Cape Town train fire Firefighters have arrived at Cape Town train station to battle yet another train-related blaze after thick, black smoke permeated the air above the station on Tuesday. Nearly 24,000 ordered to evacuate after Brazil dam burst, 250 missing Firefighters on Sunday called for the evacuation of some 24,000 people from the Brazilian town hit by a deadly mudslide from a ruptured mining dam as rains added to concerns a second dam could collapse. New alert as hundreds feared dead in Brazil dam disaster An alarm warning of an imminent mining dam rupture went up early Sunday in Brumadinho, the same Brazilian community where a dam collapsed killing 37 with hundreds more feared dead, firefighters and the mining company said. The alert, warning of da... Images of evacuated Brumadinho after alert for second dam burst An alarm warning of an imminent mining dam rupture went up early Sunday in Brumadinho, the same Brazilian community where a dam collapsed killing 34 with hundreds more feared dead, firefighters and the mining company said. Hundreds missing after Brazil dam collapse Firefighters are searching for those missing after a dam collapse caused a huge mudslide at a mine complex in Brazil. Firefighters rescue deer from frozen lake A deer had a lucky escape in Kansas, US, after it fell through the ice of a frozen lake. Deer rescued from icy Kansas lake Firefighters in Olathe, Kansas rescued a deer that fell through ice and was stuck in five feet of water. After being dragged to shore, the deer ran off, apparently uninjured. Residents evacuated after a suspected car bomb exploded in Londonderry Residents have been evacuated after a suspected car bomb exploded in Londonderry.

The Police Service of Northern Ireland as well as firefighters and the ambulance service sealed off the scene close to a courthouse on Bishop Street in the city. 'Firefighting Sexism': Four-year-old inspires global firewomen campaign A fire service has sparked a global campaign after they shared images of their female firefighters to encourage a four-year-old girl interested in becoming one.

West Midlands Fire Service (WMFS) posted a video response to journalist Hannah Summer... Reporter - Snow chaos in the Alps Austria is snowed under -- to the delight of skiers and the horror of homeowners. Even older Austrians are amazed by the amount of snow that's fallen in a matter of days. Soldiers, firefighters and volunteers are helping in the most affected areas. Rescue efforts underway after 2 year old falls into 110m borehole Over 100 firefighters and other emergency services personnel were deployed in Spain's Malaga province, as efforts continue to rescue a two year-old boy who fell down a 110 metre (360 feet) 25 centimetre (9.85 inch) wide borehole. The rescue operat... Death toll rises to four in Paris explosion The death toll from a gas explosion in central Paris has risen to four after rescue workers found a woman's body in the rubble, firefighters announce. One person missing after a powerful gas explosion in Paris One person is missing after a powerful gas explosion tore through a building in central Paris, killing a Spanish woman and two firefighters and injuring dozens more. Around 200 firefighters were mobilised to battle the fire that broke out after th... Dramatic images of bakery explosion aftermath A powerful explosion and fire apparently caused by a gas leak at a Paris bakery Saturday injured several people, blasted out windows and overturned cars, police said. 'It was a very very big explosion' A gas explosion in the centre of Paris is reported to have injured dozens of people and killed two firefighters. 86 puppies rescued from pet store fire Firefighters were joined by passers-by to rescue nearly 100 puppies from a burning Connecticut pet store. Firemen work to put out fire at Rio oil refinery Firefighters in Rio de Janeiro work to put out a short-lived fire at the Manguinhos refinery. Firefighters tackle blaze at Chester Zoo Firefighters work to extinguish a blaze at Chester Zoo. Visitors have been evacuated after a fire broke out in the Monsoon Forest habitat area. 'Yellow vests': scooters and cars on fire in Paris Firefighters try to extinguish scooters and cars on fire in Prony street, near Champs Elysees avenue in Paris, as Paris is hit by violence for the latest "yellow vest" protests against President Emmanuel Macron. Helicopter rescues people, dogs from wildfire Newly released video shows the dramatic moment firefighters rescued three people and two dogs as thick smoke and flames fast approached in Southern California. Officials: Multiple dead in NJ mansion fire Multiple people have perished in a fire at a mansion in Monmouth County New Jersey. Video shows smoke pouring from the roof of the multi-floored structure as firefighters battled the blaze. Helicopter pilots stage dramatic wildfire rescue Firefighters rescue three people and two dogs as thick smoke and flames fast approach following wildfires in California. Scenes of devastation in Chico ahead of Trump's California visit Scenes of devastation in Chico following the worst-ever wildfire to hit the US state of California. President Trump is heading to California to meet with officials, victims and the "unbelievably brave" firefighters there, as more than 1,000 people... AP reporter recounts NorCal wildfire body search As firefighters searched the ruins of Paradise, California for the remains of those lost in a deadly wildfire, AP reporter Gillian Flaccus was there when two bodies were found. The blaze in Northern California destroyed the town of Paradise. All Hail! The 2019 NYC Taxi Drivers Calendar Is Here Forget the hunky firefighters and the pretty pin-ups that typically grace the pages of calendars... California firefighters work through the night Firefighters worked into the night Monday trying to contain a blaze that killed at least 42 people and destroyed 6,700 structures, mostly homes, in northern California. Kanye West pays tribute to brave wildfire firefighters Rapper Kanye West has paid a well deserved tribute to the brave firefighters tackling the devastating wildfires currently ripping through California. People's Choice Awards: Kim Kardashian West and Mila Kunis honour those battling California wildfire Many winners at the People's Choice Awards chose their moment to praise the firefighters battling the California wildfires, with Victoria Beckham and Mila Kunis among those to express their gratitude. California fires 'almost look like an apocalypse' At least 25 people have been killed in two giant wildfires that have been raging since Thursday in California, with firefighters facing hot, dry 'devil winds' as they work to contain the flames. 100 firefighters tackle blaze in East Finchley Up to 100 firefighters tackle blaze in East Finchley. Rescuers pull 2nd body after Marseille building collapse Firefighters evacuate a second body, found under the pile of rubble on Rue d'Aubagne in Marseille, in southern France, where two apartment blocks collapsed on Monday. Marseille Prosecutor Xavier Tarabeux has announced that a third body has also be... WATCH: Firefighters run Soweto Marathon in 18kg gear to honour fallen colleagues Three Johannesburg firefighters ran the Old Mutual Soweto Marathon on Sunday in bunker gear, to commemorate their fallen colleagues. 2 dead in Amazon building collapse Officials say at least two people died when an Amazon distribution warehouse in Baltimore partially collapsed in severe weather. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits. Woman found dead after 'gas explosion' at flat in Harrow A woman has died after a suspected gas explosion at a flat in in Fulbeck Way, Harrow, north-west London, that set the building on fire. WATCH: Flames engulf Kempton Park bus fleet Quick-acting firefighters in the east of Johannesburg were able to extinguish a blaze that engulfed a fleet of parked vehicles, late last week. Firefighters rescue baby bears from bin Firefighters in Nevada rescue three baby bears stuck in an overturned bin. Florence-hit areas still under threat: officials More than a week after the deadly arrival of Hurricane Florence, the U.S. National Weather Service is warning that areas of North and South Carolina will remain at dangerous flood levels for days to come. Nathan Frandino has more. Fire tornado sucks firefighters' hose into the sky A fire tornado sucks the British Columbia Wildfire Service's hose into the sky in Canada. It threw burning logs across the guard for nearly an hour and pulled the hose over 100 feet in the air before melting it. Greek rescuers search beach after massive rockfall Greek rescuers have been searching a beach for possible victims after a landslide left at least one woman injured.

Firefighters and a sniffer dog were sent to the secluded beach on the western island of Zante after the rock fall on Thursday. WATCH- Three firefighters confirmed dead following Johannesburg building fire.mp4 WATCH- Three firefighters confirmed dead following Johannesburg building fire Primary school damaged by major fire on eve of new term Firefighters are tackling a blaze at Roding Primary School on Hewett Road, Dagenham, London Fire Brigade said. Rio museum consumed by fire Firefighters are battling a huge blaze at the National Museum of Brazil in Rio de Janeiro. Fire breaks out an oil refinery in Germany forcing thousands to evacuate More than 2000 people have been evacuated following a blaze at an oil refinery in Bavaria. Nine people have been injured. Trudeau says better access to wildfire resources needed Justin Trudeau visited firefighters and officials in Prince George, B.C., on Thursday. The prime minister says there is a need to “clear up” access to wildfire resources between municipalities and First Nations.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.