Ntwaagae Seleka Revision, staying active, working hard: Cream of 2018 matric crop share their insights Some of the 2018 National Senior Certificate (NSC) top achievers say that they remain anxious on how well they have done ahead of the results being announced at Midnight on Thursday. The North West may not have come out tops in the battle for the best performing province when it comes to overall matric results, but it can boast having the smartest Mathematics and Science pupil of them all. - See our Matric Results page. David Mark Dodkins from Bergsig Akademie/Academy in the North West was the top performer in both Mathematics and Physical Science in the 2018 matric exams. Following Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga's announcement of the results on Thursday evening, Dodkins advised the class of 2019 that, if they hadn't already realised it, the results of their labour this year could greatly determine their future. WATCH: Cape Town matrics beam after receiving IEB marks The young men and women exiting Reddam House Atlantic Seaboard in Cape Town on Thursday couldn't stop smiling when they saw that their hard work had paid off for the IEB national senior certificate exams. Timothy Schleisinger from Rondebosch Boys' High School in the Western Cape was the second best pupil in Mathematics, while third place went to Liam Edward Gurney from Westerford High School, also in the Western Cape. In Physical Science, Dodkins was followed by Kamva Goso from Instebenziswano High School in the Western Cape and with Jean Durandt from Paul Roos Gimnasium in third, continuing the strong showing by Western Cape pupils. - Sign up here to get your 2018 matric results Phiwayinkosi Mhlongo from Bona Comprehensive School in Gauteng obtained the highest marks nationwide in Technical Mathematics, followed by Lungiswa Sibisi from Tetelo Comprehensive School, also in Gauteng. Mihlali Fipaza, from Bashee Senior Secondary School in the Western Cape, came in third.   READ: 2 Western Cape schools to offer Sign Language as matric subject The top performance in the newly-introduced Sign Language subject went to Maria Morgan from Sizwile School for the Deaf in Soweto, Gauteng, while Thabile Qondani from Kwathintwa School for the Deaf in KwaZulu-Natal was closely behind in second, and Ancilla Julius from Dominikaanse Skool Vir Dowes in the Western Cape took third place. Top of the Quintiles The Department of Basic Education also listed the top achievers in each of its quintiles. Quintiles are the five groupings, 20% each, into which the department divides the country's schools. Quintile 1 "is the group of schools in each province catering for the poorest 20% of learners", the department explained in a 2004 document on school funding. Quintile 2 schools cater for the next poorest 20% of schools, and so on. Quintile 5 comprises the least poor 20% of public schools in the country. The top achiever in a Quintile 1 schools was Molelekeng Mokoena from Tsebo Secondary School in the Free State, Muzomuhle Mthembu from Ndlela Secondary School in Mpumalanga secured second place, while Sinolwethu Mfedu from the Eastern Cape was the third best performer. Instebenziswano High School's Goso was the top achiever in Quintile 2 schools, followed by Ngobile Nzimande from Langsyde Combined School and Bongumusa Ndlovu from Zama High School, both in KwaZulu-Natal. The top achievers in Quintile 3 schools were Kharendwe Mudzielwana from Thengwe High School in Limpopo, Avukile Nkayi from Nyanga Senior Secondary School in the Western Cape, and Felicia Makondo from EPP Mhinga High School in Limpopo. Quintile 4's top achievers were Malar Ahmed from Potchefstroom Girls High School in North West, Tiietso Molata from PJ Simelane High School in Gauteng, and Rolf Martin Behrens from Rustenburg High School in North West. Justine Crook from Rustenburg Girls High School in North West, Mathematics boff Dodkins and Jarrod Staples from Westville Boys’ High School in KwaZulu-Natal were the top achievers in the Quintile 5 category, respectively. Mongezi Mbatha from Prinshof School, Gauteng, Izak Crafford from Bergsig Akademie/Academy in Gauteng and Lize van Wyk from Pionier Skool, Western Cape, were the pupils with special needs who performed the best.   WATCH: SAPS escort pupils to matric farewell in Nyala Making an entrance is an extra bonus point when making a statement at a matric farewell. One couple in particular, turned heads when they rocked up in a police Nyala van escorted by police officers at their farewell in Newcastle over the weekend. Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Head boy and top achiever ready to 'get his future started' King David High School Linksfield's 2017 head boy, who earned seven distinctions in the IEB matric exams, has some advice for those entering their matric year. Here are the alternate avenues to explore if your matric results weren't ideal Here are the alternate avenues to explore of your matric results weren't ideal Matric pass rate should be at 100% - Wits professor Wits professor Marissa Rollnick says a matric pass rate of 100% is achievable. 'Consistency was key for me' - Rebecca Haines, top matric mathematics achiever Top matric mathematics achiever Rebecca Haines from Rustenburg High School For Girls in Cape Town says her excellent results came down to working consistently. Matric exams: How does upward mark adjustment work? Upward mark adjustments usually take place when exam papers are proven to be more difficult than previous years. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. 'I strategised; I had a timetable and I stuck to it' - top matric achiever Mapula Sebati Thousands of matrics throughout the country will know their individual results on Wednesday. However, the top achievers for the class of 2015 were celebrated on Tuesday after the official announcement by Minister of Education, Angie Motshekga. Top SA matric says his rare disease motivated him to study medicine this year After missing almost two terms of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker still managed to be the overall top achiever of 2015. WATCH: You have a second chance to ace matric Universities across the country are about to open up their doors. Although the national pass rate was 71. 5%, many students did not obtain the necessary results to get them into institutions of higher learning. 'The bigger plan is to become president,' says top matric performer Tumelo Mashigo, part of the class of 2017, hopes to one day be president.

The 18-year-old was the second best performing learner with special needs among the most recent matriculants and hopes to make the world a better place one day. WATCH: 5 tips to acing your matric exams Matric examination got underway on Monday across the country. Here are a few tips for A+ results.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.