Correspondent Siyabonga Cwele. (File, GCIS) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories South Africa experienced a marginal increase in travellers over the festive season compared to the same period last year, the Department of Home Affairs says. From December 1, 2018 to January 15, 2018, 6 852 972 people entered the country. This is a 0.61% increase from the same time during the previous year, when 6 811 510 people entered the country. At a media briefing on Sunday, Home Affairs minister Siyabonga Cwele said the figure is mostly made up of foreign tourists entering the country. The figure also includes people travelling in and out of the country for reasons of cross-country employment, business, and education programmes. OR Tambo International Airport experienced the highest number of traveller volumes, Cwele said, with 997 167 traveller movements. This was followed by Beit Bridge (884 992), Lebombo (625 975), Ficksburg Bridge (471 474) and Maseru Bridge (428 038). The biggest number of travellers cleared at the country's ports of entry, according to Cwele, were from: Lesotho, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Swaziland, Botswana, the United Kingdom, Germany, the USA, Namibia and Zambia. "Statistics on traveller movement are an important indicator of how busy our ports are, and how efficient we are in processing movements… "I thank our travellers for their conduct during this period and all officials across government for meticulous planning, execution and responsiveness to operational matters during the 2018/2019 festive season," Cwele said.    KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Home affairs officials caught on their phones as people queue to be helped The Department of Home Affairs has said it will investigate after officials were filmed using their cellphones while on duty. WATCH: Woman completes epic drive from Scotland to Cape Town in a 1958 Morris Minor Laura Morrison has travelled from Scotland to South Africa in1958 Morris Minor to raise funds for cancer research. WATCH: Newborn found in trash bin gets new lease on life An abandoned KwaZulu-Natal newborn found in the trash might soon have a new place to call home. Watch. Zimbabwe: Help for Africa's wild dogs Wild dogs are among the most endangered carnivores in Africa, with only several thousand left. The Save Valley Conservancy in southeastern Zimbabwe is one of the last places they can roam freely. WATCH: Mnangagwa and and his gangster must leave Zimbabwe alone - Zimbabweans A number of protesters marched to the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria on Wednesday in solidarity with their families who've been affected by the total shutdown in Zimbabwe. First look at Showmax's saucy new thriller The video streaming service Showmax has released its official trailer for its first locally produced drama series, The Girl from St. Agnes. Wayward cat rescued from Indiana dam A wayward cat is safe after it was rescued from a dam in Huntington, Indiana. Amateur video captured the incident from high above. Food pantry busy with unpaid Coast Guard members A coalition of Coast Guard-related nonprofit groups has opened a pop-up food pantry at the U.S. Coast Guard Academy to help unpaid government workers put food on the table. Talking the long and short walks of South Africa Introducing Take a Hike, a four part hiking podcast series with passionate hiking expert, Tim Lundy and podcast host Mark Johnson. Freeland thanks ‘allies’ for support on Canadians held in China Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland says Canada is “grateful” to the international community for speaking out against the detention of two Canadians in China. Gangster's Paradise: Home of Las Vegas mobster hits the market The former home of infamous Las Vegas mob legend Tony 'The Ant' Spilotro is going up for sale in Las Vegas. Spilotro lived in the Las Vegas house from 1974 up until his murder in 1986.The notorious mob enforcer was portrayed by Joe Pesci in the 19... The world's oldest restaurant The restaurant was opened in 1725 by French cook Jean Botin and his wife. Later, a nephew took over the restaurant, giving it its present name Sobrino de Botin - nephew of Botin. Laquan McDonald cover up case ends in acquittal A judge has acquitted three Chicago police officers of trying to cover up the 2014 shooting of Laquan McDonald, ruling that the dashcam video of the black teenager's death did not necessarily tell the whole story. Australia Has Just Been Named The Most Instagrammable Place In The World Australia has just beat out incredible destinations like Hong Kong, Indonesia and South Africa, as the number one spot for a jaw-dropping, picture-perfect moment. Check out why in this video! Freeland on Canadian mining executive found dead in Burkina Faso Ottawa has confirmed the death of Canadian mining executive Kirk Woodman in Burkina Faso. Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland says Canada is working on the investigation with authorities in the west African country. WWE: Please, don't try this at home Man attempts wrestling trick but fails. My First Award: Nico Santos "Superstore" actor Nico Santos smiles when thinking back to his first-ever award, won back home in the Philippines. Clashes in the DRC killed 890 people in December 2018: UN Ethnic violence in the Democratic Republic of the Congo killed at least 890 over just three days in December 2018, the UN says.
#DRC #Congo African Union meeting in Ethiopia to discuss DRC situation Continental leaders gather at a meeting of the African Union in Addis Ababa to discuss the disputed election in the DR Congo. The DR Congo election commission  declared opposition leader Felix Tshisekedi the winner last Thursday. But a different o... Turkey: Liberal Imam on thin ice If Turkey's Directorate of Religious Affairs, or Diyanet, gets its way, imam Ahmet Muhsin Tuzer will be forbidden from preaching in his small mosque because of his second love: Turkish rock music. Singing breaks a taboo. White House terror suspect's Georgia home searched A Georgia man accused of plotting to attack the White House with an anti-tank rocket was arrested on Wednesday after he traded his car for guns and explosives, authorities said. Local media reports agents searched Hasher Jallal Taheb's home. 9/11 survivor among the 21 killed in Kenya An American 9/11 survivor, two "inseparable" Kenyan cousins, and a British citizen are among the 21 people killed in the Nairobi siege that ended after 20 hours. Multi-vehicle crash snarls California freeway Fog on a mountain highway in Southern California triggered a 19-vehicle crash Wednesday. Officials say 35 people were evaluated for injuries after the crash on Interstate 15 in Cajon Pass, about 60 miles east of Los Angeles. Families of Nairobi terror victims bury their loved ones Families of two Kenyans killed in a Nairobi hotel attack that killed 21 people bury their loved ones. Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta has confirmed that all five gunmen behind the attack are now dead. The attack has been claimed by the Al-Qaeda-li... Sears chairman wins bankruptcy auction Sears chairman Eddie Lampert won bankruptcy auction, allowing the 126-year-old retailer to keep its doors open, sources told Reuters. Kenya terror attack: death toll rises to 21 The Kenyan Chief of Police reveals that the death toll from the Nairobi hotel complex terrorist attack has risen to 21. The attack has been claimed by the Al-Qaeda-linked Somali group Al-Shabaab, which has targeted Kenya since it sent its army int... Meghan laughs after being called 'fat lady' during charity visit The Duchess of Sussex was introduced to a group of pensioners from a dementia care home when visiting the animal charity she is patron for. Meghan, who is six months pregnant, laughed with Peggy, who made the comment. Duchess of Cambridge observes performance on Royal Opera House visit The Duchess of Cambridge visits the Royal Opera House. Kate was treated to a rehearsal performance and also shown the costume department due to her keen interest in textiles. Zimbabwean police arrest activist pastor as fuel protests enter third day Armed Zimbabwean police arrested a political activist at his home on Wednesday (January 16), his lawyer said, the third day of protests against fuel price hikes as businesses and schools stayed closed and networks enforced a government internet shutd Ed Sheeran helped Kit Harington find dream home in Suffolk Ed Sheeran apparently helped Kit Harrington find his dream home after suggesting the Game of Thrones star look for a place in his native Suffolk. Jeremy Corbyn prepared for no confidence vote Jeremy Corbyn leaves his home ahead of a confidence vote in Parliament. Federal workers in Houston protest shutdown Federal workers demonstrated against the partial federal government shutdown outside the Johnson Space Center in Houston on Tuesday. KTRK-TV in Houston reports that more than 60 people took part in the protest. Where to find the world's most crystal-clear water paradise spots Love island life? Here's where to find the world's bluest, blue waters. The Top 5 Best African Beers You'd Be Crazy Not To Try! Some of the very best brews on the planet come straight out of Africa... We've taken on the task of compiling them all, and choosing only the very best beers for this top five list! The Top 5 Most Stunning & Secret Gardens Found In Africa! There are hundreds of incredibly unique flora and fauna to be found in Africa... And where better to look than some of their most stunning gardens? Check out this top five list to find out the very best one! The Top 5 Best Lookout & Scenic Spots In Africa Looking for the picture perfect spot to gaze out at the natural surroundings of Africa? We've got you covered with this top five list of the very best spots, you'll just have to add to your bucket list! Ghana urges people of African heritage to 'come home' In an effort to boost Ghana's economy, the government is aiming to reverse outward migration in 2019 by encouraging the country's diaspora to return home, despite the economic problems the west African country is still facing. 911 call reveals moments after Jayme was found Authorities in Wisconsin released audio of the 911 call placed moments after 13-year-old Jayme Closs was found and brought to a neighbor's home in rural Gordon. Tom Holland teases 'a very different take' on Spider-Man Tom Holland says his second solo Spidey movie, "Spider-Man: Far From Home," presents "a very different take" on the webslinger. NASA contractor lays off staff because of shutdown A Seattle-area NASA contractor laid off 20 percent of its staff after the federal government failed to pay the company about a $1 million because of the partial shutdown. To go to work - or to stay home? In Zimbabwe and Gambia, there are more women in the workforce than men. In industrialized countries like Germany, it's not unusual for women with children to be housewives. Cristina Cubas wonders if German policy deliberately keeps women in the home. Uganda's lacrosse players encourage youth to embrace the sport It is the first African country to field a lacrosse team at the World Championships as Uganda targets its youth to boost the sport. Two cute lion cubs make adorable debut at Vladisovstok zoo A in the Russia’s Far East Vladivostok received two adorable white lion cubs. The rare cubs arrived from Belarus and now are nursed by the zoo’s workers. Due to the rarity of the white lions, the babies have weak immune system and fed every two ho... Power-Packed: The Lexus LC 500 The Lexus LC 500 is super-sporty and super-powerful. Its 5-liter, naturally aspirated engine generates 351 kilowatts, but the cruiser it no slouch in the design department, either. We check out a 2-plus-2 seater with rear-wheel drive. Hearts will break as you see an eagle take out a baby warthog A baby warthog ran its last run with the family when a martial eagle decided to make it its next meal in Kruger National Park in South Africa.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.