Kyle Cowan WATCH: Agrizzi details unfair advantage given to Bosasa to secure 'one of the biggest' tenders Former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi is on the stand for the fifth day at the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi - an eyewitness, and participant to large-scale corruption at state entities - has delivered damning confirmatory testimony to a decade-old Special Investigating Unit (SIU) report into tender rigging at the prisons department. During the sixth day of his marathon testimony before the state capture commission of inquiry on Wednesday, Agrizzi was taken through the SIU Bosasa report step by step. OVERVIEW: #Statecaptureinquiry | 'I was tasked with counting out cash for bribery and corruption,' says Agrizzi In excruciating detail, the report sets out how four tenders with the correctional services department, awarded to Bosasa between 2004 and 2005, worth approximately R1.5bn, were the result of a corrupt and improper relationship between former prisons boss Linda Mti and the department's former chief financial officer, Patrick Gillingham. Gillingham, it emerged, sold his soul for cars for himself and his children, a luxury home, cash payments, tuition fees, matric farewell dresses, season rugby tickets, a flat in a retirement village for his ageing father, trips to Europe and a custom-installed kitchen - all paid for by Bosasa. Mti got a similar deal and according to Agrizzi, more than a decade after the tenders were awarded, the officials were still getting monthly cash payments for their efforts, despite both having left the department. Details confirmed Evidence leader for the commission, advocate Paul Pretorius, read large swathes of the SIU report and paused on occasion to ask Agrizzi to confirm if he had any personal knowledge of the events the unit recorded. Agrizzi confirmed all but the most minor details of the report. Worryingly, this confirmation from an eyewitness to some of the events that resulted in the SIU finding evidence of corruption, has placed the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) in a very poor light. This same report was handed to the NPA in 2009 - the same year it was finalised - and to date, not a single person of interest in the matter has seen the inside of a courtroom. Last week, the NPA confirmed that the Hawks had handed over its final docket and that prosecutors were studying the evidence and would make a decision on charges soon. The prosecution team is led by deputy director of public prosecutions, Peter Serunye. READ: Bosasa destroyed 40 000 documents to stymie SIU probe - Agrizzi The reasons for the inordinate delay have yet to be determined conclusively. The NPA argued that it was hampered by a failure by the Hawks to ensure forensic reports were finalised. The Hawks, in turn, blamed budget constraints, saying it had not paid two service providers who had been hired to compile the forensic reports. Cash bribes However, the reason for the delay may be far more sinister. News24 reported on Sunday that senior prosecutors Nomgcobo Jiba and Lawrence Mrwebi, together with Jiba's personal assistant Jackie Lepinka, were allegedly recipients of monthly cash bribes paid by Bosasa, via Mti and Lepinka, since 2011. All three have categorically denied receiving cash payments from Bosasa in exchange for delaying matter. Lepinka's role is yet to be fully uncovered. She was Mti's secretary before joining the NPA, where she served as Jiba's assistant. Agrizzi is yet to deliver evidence relating to how Bosasa delayed the NPA prosecution, but is expected to provide further details of how the company brought its considerable financial resources to bear in aid of staying out of jail. The commission is expected to continue on Thursday when Agrizzi is expected to take the stand again. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry: Agrizzi continues his testimony, who will be implicated? Angelo Agrizzi has revealed more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Agrizzi, Watson paid regular visits to Mokonyane's house, along with R50 000 #StateCaptureInquiry | Angelo Agrizzi continues to reveal more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Bosasa and #StateCapture | Here's what you need to know... Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson emerges as 'kingpin of bribes' Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson has emerged as the absolute kingpin in the Bosasa empire of bribes, intimidation and cold hard cash. WATCH: Former Bossasa COO unpacks the bribes Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi on Thursday detailed the money trail allegedly used for bribing state entities. WATCH | 'Every single contract was tainted with bribes' - Agrizzi testifies #StateCaptureInquiry The second day of testimony by former Bosasa top boss Angelo Agrizzi in the commission of inquiry into state capture continues. ANALYSIS | #StateCaptureInquiry: Unpacking Agrizzi's testimony Watch as News24 investigative journalist Kyle Cowen and journalist Jeanette Chabalala unpack former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi's revelations at the state capture commission. WATCH: Bosasa spent between 'R4m and R6m a month' in cash bribes - Agrizzi at #StateCaptureInquiry Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi continues to testify at state capture inquiry - Day 2 The second day of testimony by former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi at the commission of inquiry into state capture is set to be far more explosive and damning for the ruling ANC party and his former colleagues. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi testifies at state capture inquiry The Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture resumed on Wednesday with former Bosasa employee Angelo Agrizzi on the witness stand.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.