Jenna Etheridge Monwabisi beach on New Year's Day. (Supplied: City of Cape Town) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories While the majority of South Africans safely enjoyed their New Year's Day celebrations at the sea or near a pool, some were struck by tragedy, while others were saved by strangers and lifeguards. Beaches in Table View, Cape Town, were particularly affected by rip current incidents, according to a National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) statement on Wednesday. In the first incident, which happened at around 14:40, a bystander rescued a local man from the water who appeared to get into difficulty after being caught in a rip current, according to NSRI spokesperson Craig Lambinon. Lifeguards and paramedics tried to resuscitate the man, but were unsuccessful. Less than two hours later, around 16:00, a man and woman were reportedly swept out to sea by rip currents at the same beach. The man apparently went to assist the woman, but got into trouble. Swept out to sea They were saved by an unidentified bystander and a German tourist, Igor Obu, who used an NSRI Pink Rescue Buoy. Around 19:00, a 23-year-old man was swept out to sea by rip currents. Eyewitnesses then saw him disappear under the water. "He had been swimming with two friends, and they were both able to get out of the surf," said Lambinon. The man was not found, despite an extensive sea and shoreline search. The man, from Duduza in Johannesburg, had been on holiday, visiting friends in Cape Town. Efforts of lifeguards and strangers At the nearby Small Bay Beach in Bloubergstrand, a 35-year-old man was rescued from the surf, but died after resuscitation efforts failed. A 29-year-old man in Tongaat also died after he could not be resuscitated at a community pool. In Richards Bay, an eight-year-old boy was rescued from drowning in the afternoon, but another child's body was recovered a few hours later. Lambinon conveyed his condolences to all the affected families. He said that others had been saved at different beaches, thanks to the efforts of lifeguards and strangers.  WATCH: Heavy police escort for Mihalik accused Three people appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Thursday on charges for the murder of top advocate Pete Mihalik. Grave dilemma: S.African cities short of cemetery space In Johannesburg, land is a hot topic, even for the dead. Population growth, migration to urban areas and an influx of foreigners has put huge pressure on land in urban areas. Adding to the problem is a cultural resistance to the practice of cremat... WATCH: Shady character steals designer sunglasses A thief with sticky fingers was able to steal two pairs of designer sunglasses from an optical store in Johannesburg last Friday. WATCH: Pedestrian mowed down by taxi driving in the wrong lane A taxi driving on the wrong side of the road knocked over a pedestrian in morning traffic in Sharonlea, Johannesburg on Monday. WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 2) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 3) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: New footage shows armed men fleeing after Joburg M1 shootout New footage has emerged giving further insight into the shooting on Johannesburg's M1 on Monday. WATCH: Firefighters run Soweto Marathon in 18kg gear to honour fallen colleagues Three Johannesburg firefighters ran the Old Mutual Soweto Marathon on Sunday in bunker gear, to commemorate their fallen colleagues. WATCH: Door of Hope: A new beginning for abandoned babies The Door of Hope organisation has taken care of more than 1500 children since it was established in 1999.

One of the ways they take in children is through the "baby bin" - a hole in the wall were parents can leave their unwanted babies. WATCH: Lehae land invaders vow to stay Residents of Lehae, south of Johannesburg, who invaded vacant RDP houses said they will not be shaken after the police evicted them and took the doors of their now homes. Miley Cyrus is in Cape Town, South Africa Miley Cyrus was spotted shopping in Cape Town, South Africa. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. Kwesta, Cassper Nyovest and Nasty C among this celeb barber's famous clientele Celebrity barber Sheldon Tatchell is well-known for cutting the hair of Johannesburg's elite and now The Legends Barbershop will be setting up shop in Cape Town. South Africans confront a gloomy economic outlook South Africa's economy has entered recession for the first time since 2009, dealing a blow to President Cyril Ramaphosa's economic reform agenda. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. WATCH: MyCiTi employees' 'wildcat' strike continued on Tuesday A "wildcat" strike by MyCiTi employees appeared to enter its second day on Tuesday as the bus service announced disruptions on several routes around Cape Town. Why Cape Town is turning off its taps South Africa's second largest city is in the midst of a severe drought. WATCH: Cape Town's karate kid raises tournament money through hard work and community support A pint-sized karate kid from Lansdowne in Cape Town has unleashed his inner entrepreneur, raising money to take part in a national karate tournament by selling atchar, dried fruit and sauces at a stall in Rylands. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. VIDEO: 'We pay R2 to use mall toilets' – Cape Town informal settlement residents demand basic servic Five Cape Town communities joined with social justice movements to march to the Cape Town Civic Centre on Thursday. 

The protesters expressed exasperation over the lack of basic services in informal settlements in the city. It's time to involve the entire security cluster - Blade Nzimande after latest Cape Town train fire Firefighters have arrived at Cape Town train station to battle yet another train-related blaze after thick, black smoke permeated the air above the station on Tuesday. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits. WATCH: 'A fairy-tale day' as homeless couple exchanges wedding vows A dream came true for Llewellyn Jenniker and Cecilia Jenniker on Tuesday when the homeless couple, who've been living together on the streets for decades, finally tied the knot. The Street Art Galleries of Cape Town Rather than an act of vandalism, many see graffiti art as a form of visual poetry engaging with the people of the city. This is your guide to exploring the open-air galleries of the Mother City in South Africa. WATCH: The Sasol Solar Challenge Sasol Solar Challenge 2018 took place from the 22nd to the 30th of September. WATCH: Cellphone footage shows violent mob justice on Cape Town promenade On Sunday, the Eden on the bay promenade in Big bay, seemed no different than it usually does on a sunny weekend for the most part of the day. Then the end of the day saw the stretch of grass on the promenade turn into a small war zone. WATCH: Forensic teams comb crime scene after Mihalik shooting A police officer calls for assistance moments after criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik was shot dead in his car in Green Point, Cape Town. Ed Sheeran has a special message for his Cape Town fans Ed Sheeran has announced a second and final show at Cape Town Stadium on Thursday, 28 March 2019. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. The Wonder of Rwanda Kigali is joining the ranks of start-up cities in Africa alongside Lagos, Nairobi and Cape Town. A new start-up center has just opened there. WATCH: Oh beer! Crates of alcohol crash out of beer truck in Cape Town It was unhappy hour for a truck driver who lost a huge load of beer after attempting to turn his vehicle in South Africa on Friday. Lions suspected in drowning of 400 buffaloes in Botswana More than 400 buffaloes believed to have been chased by lions drown in a river in northern Botswana. The mass drowning occurred on Tuesday night in Chobe River on the border with Namibia. Buffalo river drownings are not uncommon in the region, but... WATCH: Crowd brutally attacks man armed with paintball gun On Saturday a crowd attacked a man in Seapoint in Cape Town. WATCH: 'Ho, ho, whoooa!' - NSRI to the rescue as Santa slips and stumbles off boat A jolly Santa Claus managed to do what he does best at a beach in Cape Town this weekend, putting smiles on many children's faces in a rather unexpected fashion. Local celebs shine on SA Fashion Week red carpet Local celebs came dressed in the finest fashions as they stepped onto the red carpet at the Cruz Vodka SA Fashion Week launch party in Johannesburg. Boulders Beach - Home of the African Penguin It is one of the world's most Instagrammed beaches. It is nature at its most pristine. And you can even swim with penguins. WATCH: Crash, booze, bang in Cape Town as nearly 12 000 litres of alcohol go down the drain City of Cape Town law enforcement officers popped open more than 16 000 liquor cans and bottles on Thursday as the City prepares for the upcoming festive season. WATCH: Shark spotters: proactive initiative going swimmingly Naveron Lesch is on the lookout for the ocean's most dominant predator, one fully-trained member of a team of 30 Shark Spotters, a proactive early warning shark safety service operating on eight of Cape Town's beaches. WATCH: Chinese national shot and wounded, cash stolen in Johannesburg A Chinese national was shot and wounded and cash stolen out of his vehicle when several armed robbers pounced on his car south of Johannesburg yesterday. WATCH: Criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik shot dead outside Green Point school Reports have emerged that lawyer Pete Mihalik has been murdered in a Cape Town shooting. Absa Premiership 2018/19 profile: Cape Town City A look at the profile of Absa Premiership side Cape Town City ahead of the 2018/19 season. WATCH: No injuries or fatalities in South African factory fire Johannesburg emergency services spent hours trying to contain a fire that broke out in a glue and paper factory in Kya Sands, Johannesburg, on Wednesday morning. May dons dancing shoes in SA The prime minister shimmied with school kids in Cape Town at the start of her visit to Africa. WATCH: Dan Plato elected as Cape Town mayor Dan Plato has been elected as Cape Town's new executive mayor during a special council sitting on Tuesday. WATCH: This young Khayelitsha artist used drawing to escape drugs and alcohol abuse Luvo Khehla, a second-year graphics design student at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology, says art helped him escape a life of drug and alcohol abuse. What goes on behind-the-scenes on a game show Channel24 was invited to a taping of celebrity trivia game show Tropika Smoooth Fan in Cape Town and we're giving you a behind-the-scenes look! WATCH:  Fire rages out of control near Hermanus Firefighters from the Overstrand Municipality have spent the last 24 hours fighting an out of control fire about 10km from Hermanus in the Western Cape. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.