Ntwaagae Seleka WATCH: Rubber bullets and teargas answer Westbury residents' pleas in fight against drugs, gun violence While drug dealing and the accompanying gun violence have been on the increase in Westbury, residents say their calls for a safer, drug-free community seem to go unheard as police allegedly fail to respond to complaints. Magistrate's court. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories An alleged gang member accused of shooting a man at a funeral in Westbury, Johannesburg briefly appeared in the Johannesburg Magistrate's Court on Monday. Gavin Boeta Naidoo faces charges of murder and possession of drugs. Magistrate S Vele read him his rights and explained the consequences if he was convicted of the offences he was charged with. Vele also advised him that he had the right to apply for his release on bail – something which he needed to consult his lawyer about. He chose to be represented by a lawyer from the South African Legal Aid Board. Anti-Gang and Drug Unit The Anti-Gang and Drug Unit arrested Naidoo in Westbury last Friday morning. He was wanted in connection with the death of Elton Smith, aged 24, who was shot dead while attending a funeral in June last year. Smith died on the scene. It is believed that Smith's killing is related to gang violence in Westbury. Naidoo, who is allegedly linked to a gang in the area, is expected back in court on January 14. READ: Police's fight against drugs in Westbury gains momentum Last month, the Anti-Gang and Drug Unit arrested a 25-year-old suspect in Westbury for possession of drugs worth more than R100 000 following an "intensive intelligence-driven operation". The unit was deployed in Westbury to reinforce the various units responsible for finding and arresting drug dealers and gangsters in the area. President Cyril Ramaphosa launched the unit in Hanover Park on November 2 after Heather Petersen was killed in a shootout between rival gangs in Westbury. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. #OurLostChildren: Remembering baby Zahnia - caught in gang crossfire Cindy Woodward will never hear her firstborn call her mommy. WATCH: 1 dead, 1 injured in Valhalla Park gang-related shooting One person was shot dead and another injured in a gang-related shooting in Valhalla Park, Cape Town, on Thursday morning. WATCH: Bheki Cele visits family of Gift of the Givers volunteer killed in gang shooutout Police Minister Bheki Cele paid a visit to the family of Ameerodien Noordien, the Gift of the Givers volunteer who was killed in gang crossfire in Hanover Park, Cape Town. WATCH: #WesternCapeShutdown: Over 250 people march to Parliament against gang violence Over 200 people marched from Keizergracht to Parliament and the Western Cape government provincial offices as part of the #WesternCapeShutdown against gang violence on Wednesday morning.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.