Sesona Ngqakamba School desks. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Gauteng legislature has welcomed the 2018 matric results and congratulated the province's class for securing top spot in the country, with an 87.9% pass rate. Gauteng Portfolio Committee on Education chairperson Joe Mpisi congratulated the work of the Department of Education and MEC Panyaza Lesufi. "The committee is satisfied with the culture of learning and teaching that went well in the year 2018, and throughout we saw evidence that our schools were working tirelessly to prepare learners to be ready for the exams," said Mpisi. Get your 2018 results on News24's matric results page. He also congratulated the school governing bodies, as well as parents, for their participation in their children's education, by ensuring that schools were running smooth and effectively. "We congratulate the learners who dedicated their time, efforts and energy in studying very hard to ensure that they achieve success in their academic year with flying colours. Equally, we congratulate the educators for their hard work in preparing learners for the exams through the year," he said. However, Mpisi has called on parents not to participate in activities that would disrupt learning and teaching in schools during the 2019 academic year. He added that, while much had been done to improve the pass rate in the province, more work needed to be done. READ: Matric results: Meet South Africa's top performing pupils On Thursday evening, Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga announced the overall 2018 pass rate, with progressed pupils included, was 78.2%. This was an improvement of 3.1 percentage points from the 75.1% achieved in 2017.  WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. Revision, staying active, working hard: Cream of 2018 matric crop share their insights Some of the 2018 National Senior Certificate (NSC) top achievers say that they remain anxious on how well they have done ahead of the results being announced at Midnight on Thursday. WATCH: SAPS escort pupils to matric farewell in Nyala Making an entrance is an extra bonus point when making a statement at a matric farewell. One couple in particular, turned heads when they rocked up in a police Nyala van escorted by police officers at their farewell in Newcastle over the weekend. Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Head boy and top achiever ready to 'get his future started' King David High School Linksfield's 2017 head boy, who earned seven distinctions in the IEB matric exams, has some advice for those entering their matric year. Here are the alternate avenues to explore if your matric results weren't ideal Here are the alternate avenues to explore of your matric results weren't ideal Matric pass rate should be at 100% - Wits professor Wits professor Marissa Rollnick says a matric pass rate of 100% is achievable. 'Consistency was key for me' - Rebecca Haines, top matric mathematics achiever Top matric mathematics achiever Rebecca Haines from Rustenburg High School For Girls in Cape Town says her excellent results came down to working consistently. Matric exams: How does upward mark adjustment work? Upward mark adjustments usually take place when exam papers are proven to be more difficult than previous years. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. 'I strategised; I had a timetable and I stuck to it' - top matric achiever Mapula Sebati Thousands of matrics throughout the country will know their individual results on Wednesday. However, the top achievers for the class of 2015 were celebrated on Tuesday after the official announcement by Minister of Education, Angie Motshekga. Top SA matric says his rare disease motivated him to study medicine this year After missing almost two terms of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker still managed to be the overall top achiever of 2015. WATCH: You have a second chance to ace matric Universities across the country are about to open up their doors. Although the national pass rate was 71. 5%, many students did not obtain the necessary results to get them into institutions of higher learning. 'The bigger plan is to become president,' says top matric performer Tumelo Mashigo, part of the class of 2017, hopes to one day be president.

The 18-year-old was the second best performing learner with special needs among the most recent matriculants and hopes to make the world a better place one day. WATCH: 5 tips to acing your matric exams Matric examination got underway on Monday across the country. Here are a few tips for A+ results.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.