Jan Gerber IEC. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories As the final day for voter registration dawned on Sunday, political leaders readied themselves to hit the campaign trail all over the country, including some hometown and church visits. Far away from his Nkandla homestead, former president Jacob Zuma will be campaigning for the ANC in Gauteng's West Rand. Msholozi was scheduled to go on a walkabout in Mohlakeng's wards 15 and 16 from 11:30 to 13:00, and in Bekkersdal's wards 31 and 32 from 14:15 to 16:00. "The African National Congress has deployed members of its National Executive Committee and its public office bearers to all Provinces to encourage South Africans to register to vote or update their details," reads the ANC's statement with the details of Zuma's "deployment". As its former president, Zuma is an ex-officio member of the ANC's NEC. Also in Gauteng, several ANC leaders would visit churches on Sunday morning to "encourage the youth and the older congregants to register to vote or update their details". ANC Gauteng provincial chairperson David Makhura will visit the VGK Church in Alra Park, Nigel, from 10:00, after he had embarked on a door-to-door campaign. VOTER REGISTRATION WEEKEND ANCGP Provincial Chairperson Cde David Makhura inspects the McKenzie Housing Development Project, Alrapak on his voter registration drive. #GrowSouthAfrica#RegisterToVoteANC#ThumaMina pic.twitter.com/2SFWaiTppb  ANC Gauteng deputy provincial chairperson Panyaza Lesufi and Gauteng SACP chairperson Joe Mpisi visited the Grace Bible Church in Pimville from 09:00. The Revelations Church of God in Joubert Park, Johannesburg hosted ANC treasurer-general Paul Mashatile and ANC Gauteng deputy provincial secretary Nomantu Nkomo Ralehoko from 09:00.  ANC TG Cde Paul Mashatile, ANCGP Deputy Provincial Secretary Cde Nomantu Nkomo Ralehoko together with Cde @Geoff_Makhubo the chair of Joburg Region are at the Revelation Church of God in Joubert Park to urge all to register to vote. #RegisteredToVoteANC #GrowSouthAfrica pic.twitter.com/wzOyOshuh9  The ANC also had their "deployees" on the ground in every province. DA leader Mmusi Maimane was scheduled to check that he and his parents were registered at his hometown of Dobsonville, Soweto, at the Presbyterian Church, Dobsonville, from 09:00. He would also be accompanied by DA premier candidate in Gauteng, recently resigned Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga. Nayi le Walk! ??‍?The first step to take in removing this corrupt ANC government is to #RegisterToVoteDA.Our track record in the DA-led governments is there for everyone to see. We put people at the centre of everything we do. pic.twitter.com/WMzZ3iLPie   Our Leader @MmusiMaimane's entire family, mother, father, wife, and sister are all here in Presbyterian Church in Dobsonville voting station to confirm their registration statuses. If Mmusi can do it, you can do it too. #RegisterToVoteDA today. pic.twitter.com/Pf21T7kcEz   The DA's other premier candidates will also be active in their respective provinces and visiting several voting stations to check the registration progress. EFF leader Julius Malema visited the Apostolic Faith Mission River of Life in Soshanguve from 09:00, where EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi also led the congregation in song. CIC @Julius_S_Malema at Apostolic Faith Mission River of Life https://t.co/Dol06YM4lB   We have found happiness in the Lord’s way. Enemies have scattered. He has defeated them for usIt is nice to be in the house of the Lord ?? pic.twitter.com/vXGRb3LoF9     WATCH: 'ANC is killing us' - DA unveils billboard listing names of Marikana, Life Esidimeni victims DA leaders and supporters marched on Wednesday to unveil a new giant billboard in Johannesburg. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. WATCH: Ramaphosa tees off ahead of ANC's manifesto launch President Cyril Ramaphosa enjoyed a day of golf on Friday morning ahead of  the ANC's birthday celebrations and manifesto launch on Saturday. Ramaphosa played alongside paired players at the Mount Edgecombe Country Club Estate in Durban. WATCH: Ramaphosa calls on private sector to assist with the fight against corruption Corruption has become a big issue that has to be addressed by the whole nation, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Thursday. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma. Zuma on land: Less debate, more nationalisation Former President Jacob Zuma said there is too much debate about land expropriation without compensation to his liking, and suggested that land should be nationalised. WATCH LIVE: Julius Malema addresses the crowd outside #StateCaptureInquiry EFF leader Julius Malema addressed the crowd outside the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture where Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan was testifying. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. LAND REFORM: The exact moment resolution to amend Constitution is adopted The Joint Constitutional Review Committee on Thursday adopted a resolution that Section 25 of the Constitution be amended to allow expropriation without compensation. Land expropriation: EFF says it's race issue; DA questions process Court action to prevent Parliament from amending the Constitution to allow for expropriation without compensation seems imminent as parties opposing an amendment to section 25 all sang from the same hymn sheet.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.