Pelane Phakgadi Tokyo Sexwale chats to ANC chaplain-general Vukile Mehana. (File) (Felix Dlangamandla) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The South African Council of Churches (SACC) is disgusted by the "shocking and unbelievable utterances" made by Reverend Vukile Mehana, the organisation said in a statement late on Wednesday. An audio recording of a conversation between Mehana – a minister of the Methodist Church of Southern Africa and the ANC's chaplain-general – and Raymond Sibanga has been shared on social media. In the audio clip, the two speak about women pastors in the church in a derogatory manner. SACC general secretary Bishop Malusi Mpumlwana said that Mehana's views on women in the church were "misplaced". "For him to disparage women ministers to the extent of referencing women’s breasts, is absolutely disgusting and must be condemned unequivocally," said Mpumlwana. READ: ANC dumps Methodist minister from January 8 celebrations after 'degrading' comments about women Mpumlwana added that Mehana’s comments were in conflict with the human rights prescripts of the Constitution, that should be binding on all citizens. "His views on women deserve the urgent attention of the Commission for Gender Equality".  The ANC WL statement against the sentiments shared by the Rev Dr Mehana pic.twitter.com/mHlaa4umc1  The ANC on Wednesday announced that Mehana would no longer officiate at the party's January 8 celebrations, taking place in Durban next week. The party said it had noted with disappointment the comments attributed to Mehana. On Monday, the Methodist Church said it was conducting an internal investigation into the matter. In a statement, the church called the recording distressing and said that it "noted with dismay the blatant disrespect and portrayal of women who are characterised in a dismissive, humiliating and degrading caricature". "The objectifying of the anatomy of women and its link to culture and religion is not only unacceptable, but also equally distasteful". Mehana has since apologised for the comments. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Saudi Arabia restricts Canada trade, recalls ambassador Saudi Arabia will suspend new trade and investment with Canada after that country's foreign ministry urged Riyadh to release arrested civil rights activists. Ottawa says coerced sterilization already covered by criminal code The federal government is agreeing with the UN’s statement that the coerced sterilization of Indigenous women and girls in Canada is a violation of human rights. The Liberals say the criminal code already covers this practice. Armed conflict victims celebrate International Human Rights Day A group of victims of the armed conflict in Colombia commemorate the International Day of Human Rights through art, demanding truth, justice and that it never happens again. Sex abuse 'routine' in North Korea - report Sexual abuse by officials in positions of authority in North Korea appears to be widespread, according to Human Rights Watch Executive Director, Kenneth Roth. Thousands rally against Duterte's proposed martial law extension Activists marched to the presidential palace in Manila on International Human Rights Day to protest against President Rodrigo Duterte's proposed extension of martial law in Mindanao. Rights group demands end to sterilization of Indigenous women The UN Committee Against Torture says Canada must investigate the forced sterilization of Indigenous women and girls. Jackie Hansen of Amnesty International says the practice violates a “long list of human rights.” Nuns break their silence over years abuse by priests In the latest scandal to hit the Catholic Church, nuns are speaking out against the sexual abuse they faced at the hands of priests and bishops. 'Young women are incredible' Women in Spain are marking International Women's Day with a strike targeting gender inequality and sexual discrimination. Pope apologises for Catholic Church crimes Pope Francis apologised for the 'scandal and betrayal' of Catholic priests' sexual exploitation of children around the world on August 26 in Dublin, Ireland. Blockchain's Potential in Africa with Olugbenga Agboola (Flutterwave), Omolara Awoyemi (SureGroup) a As crypto fever gripped many leading economies in 2018, Africa was shaping its own blockchain narrative—one more grounded in utility than speculation. Over the last year, the continent saw several ICOs and token launches. And use cases for blockch... D.C. archbishop resigns amid sex abuse crisis Pope Francis has accepted the resignation of Cardinal Donald Wuerl as archbishop of Washington, D.C., the Vatican said on Friday, making him one of the most senior Catholic figures to step down in a worldwide sexual abuse crisis. Bettr at the Startup Battlefield Finals | Battlefield Africa 2018 Bettr is a virtual banking experience powered by your smartphone and your data. Gender pay gap widest among CEOs, report says A new study finds on average, Canadian men in senior executive positions earn about $950,000 more than their female counterparts. The Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives calculates that of the more than 1200 named executive officers at 249 pub... Life Beyond a Gender Label Some people might shrug it off as a fad; others take the path of self-righteousness and judgment. Chinese female pilot hopes sky's the limit for gender equality Chinese female pilots are hoping the sky's the limit as they try and tackle gender inequality.  At the end of 2017 there were only 713 female pilots licensed to fly civilian aircraft compared to 55,052 men. Catholic church in Australia rejects mandatory reporting of child abuse discussed in confessional The Catholic church in Australia on Friday rejected laws forcing priests to report child abuse when they learn about it in the confessional, setting the stage for a showdown between the country's biggest religion and the government. Porn for all! Feminist filmmakers tackle adult movie machismo Ethical, diverse and not a silicone breast in sight -- feminist filmmakers are standing up to mass-market porn with adult movies free of male domination and gender stereotypes. Ukrainian church prepares to cut Russian ties The Ukrainian security service has been raiding Orthodox Christian churches in the country, saying it suspects Russia-aligned clergy of spreading religious hatred. It comes before a council in Kiev on Saturday at which Ukrainian priests will establis First woman bishop of London First woman bishop of London Sarah Mullally is installed at St Paul's Cathedral. She gives a speech referencing the suffragettes and knife crime in London. German Catholic Church 'looked the other way' The Roman Catholic Church in Germany has released a previously leaked report detailing the sexual abuse of 3,677 children by clergy there over seven decades. It's the latest in a global crisis for the Vatican and came with an apology from Germany'... Grenfell fire 'ripped out heart of community' The Reverend Mike Long describes the community response to the fire back then and now, six months on. U.S. cardinal removed amid sex abuse allegations The former Archbishop of Washington, 87-year-old Cardinal Theodore McCarrick has become the latest high-ranking member of the Catholic church to have been brought down by sexual abuse allegations. McCarrick's suspension was announced Wednesday aft... Abuse victims urge action as bishops meet to pray As U.S.-based Roman Catholic bishops are meeting outside Chicago on the church sexual abuse scandal, many are dismayed that it has taken so long for the church leadership to meet and act after so many years. 'Reggaeton doesn't have to be all about sex' Colombian female reggaeton artist Gelo Arango wants to change the sexist, macho stereotypes in her genre. American Bishop to give address at Prince Harry's wedding to Meghan Markle Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have invited the head of the Episcopal Church, Most Reverend Michael Bruce Curry to deliver the sermon at their upcoming royal wedding and he's accepted! Poland: Pedophile priests Increasingly, victims of abuse are taking legal action against pedophile priests in Poland's Catholic Church. Many were abused as children, when they served as altar boys. Now they're taking their former tormentors to court. Twitter reacts to Bishop Michael Curry Twitter reacts to the sermon given by the Most Rev Bishop Michael Curry, the first black presiding bishop and primate of the Episcopal Church at the royal wedding. WATCH: White people failed the TRC by not attending - Peter Storey Challenging apartheid wherever he could, Bishop Peter Storey led the Methodist Church of Southern Africa into what many white congregants saw as uncomfortable 'political' territory. His new book, I Beg to Differ, spans his sorrow and joys. WATCH: Peter Storey on how Rivonia Trial prisoners on Robben Island changed him Challenging apartheid wherever he could, Bishop Peter Storey led the Methodist Church of Southern Africa into what many white congregants saw as uncomfortable 'political' territory. His new book, I Beg to Differ, spans his sorrow and joys. Youverify provides verification services for Sub-Sahara Africa. Identity and address verification services for Sub-Sahara Africa. Hillary Clinton slams Trump and Putin during Oxford University speech Hillary Clinton launched a scathing attack on Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin during her keynote speech at Oxford University's Mansfield College, while honouring the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Africa: 2018 slower than expected, upturn in 2019? Sub-Saharan Africa's recovery will progress slowly into next year, despite a historic free-trade agreement being signed earlier in March. But as Pascale Davies reports, there is a glimmer of hope for some of the continent's economies. "It's my decision" - A woman in Saudi Arabia Women's rights in Saudi Arabia are limited. They have to have a male guardian. But Zainab Alkhudairi has taken control of her destiny. She's an exceptional woman in many ways. Women without rights in Kosovo Two of three women in Kosovo become victims of domestic violence. They can't rely on the police or courts for protection or even the European Court of Human Rights: Kosovo has yet to be internationally recognized. LGBT super choir sings outside Parliament ahead of EU Withdrawal Bill votes The LGBT super choir open-air performance organised by Amnesty International, Liberty and Stonewall, is urging MPs to safeguard key human rights protections including those relied on by the LGBT community. Saudi Arabia arrests activists who campaigned for 'right to drive' Saudi Arabia has arrested prominent women's rights activists who campaigned for the right to drive and the abolition of the male guardianship system. Rights groups condemn Saudi women activists' arrests International rights groups have condemned the arrests of at least seven prominent Saudi Arabian women's rights activists who previously campaigned for women's right to drive, which the conservative kingdom is set to grant from next month. Alfie Evans' dad: 'We're never going to back down' Footage from Alder Hey hospital and a neighbouring park as campaigners await news of the latest appeal by the parents of toddler Alfie Evans to continue his care.

His parents Tom Evans, 21, and Kate James, 20, are due to ask Court of Appeal judge... Children lost to China's 'Muslim crackdown' Tens of thousands of Chinese Uighur Muslim families are being torn apart in a crackdown that's seen as many as one million people detained, according to the U.N. Emily Wither speaks to one mother, now in Istanbul, who has lost her children to the sta Israel denies entry to Swedish activist Benjamin Ladraa Human rights activist Benjamin Ladraa speaks out after he was denied entry by Israeli border guards. He spent 11 months walking from Sweden to Palestine. A former political prisoner in Egypt speaks about the country's judiciary system Egypt sentenced 75 people to death in the Rabaa massacre mass trial on Saturday. Egyptian-Irish human rights activist Ibrahim Halawa spoke to us about the verdict. #Rabaa, #Egypt, #Trial Several arrests at demonstration against Ponomarev's detention Russian police arrests demonstrators who gathered in front of the FSB building to protest against the detention of a prominent 77-year-old human rights activist, Lev Ponomarev, and the 'arbitrariness' of Russian security forces. The 'March for pea... The 1979 Iranian revolution in brief Saudi Arabia has reportedly tortured and sexually harassed human rights activists. Several female activists in the kingdom's Dhahban prison have allegedly been electrocuted and flogged. #SaudiArabia, #torture, #women Saudi Arabia 'tortured and sexually harassed' female activists Saudi Arabia has reportedly tortured and sexually harassed human rights activists. Several female activists in the kingdom's Dhahban prison have allegedly been electrocuted and flogged. #SaudiArabia, #torture, #women Hungary makes sleeping on the streets a crime A tough new law that bans homeless people from sleeping on Hungary’s streets came into force on Monday, prompting criticism from human rights groups who say it is inhumane. Hungary makes sleeping on the streets a crime A tough new law that bans homeless people from sleeping on Hungary’s streets came into force on Monday, prompting criticism from human rights groups who say it is inhumane. Supreme Court backs Trump travel ban The US Supreme Court has upheld Trump's travel ban blocking citizens of Muslim-majority countries entry to the US. The decision has been widely criticised by refugee and human rights groups. EU urged to stop commercial trade in tigers An animal rights charity, FOUR PAWS, is urging the European Union to ban commercial trade of tigers. Trade in wild tigers is banned, but breeding and trading of captive tigers - many of which end up being killed for traditional medicine - remains ... 'Power of love': US bishop wows with address Bishop Curry of the US Episcopal Church gave the address at Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's wedding. Canada defiant after Saudi Arabia freezes new trade over human rights call Canada has refused to back down in its defense of human rights after Saudi Arabia froze new trade and investment and expelled the Canadian ambassador in retaliation for Ottawa's call to free arrested Saudi civil society activists.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.