Ntwaagae Seleka Pitch Black Afro. (Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The State is demanding that rapper Thulani Ngcobo, better known as Pitch Black Afro, provide DNA samples before his bail application can be completed. Following the request from State prosecutor Mzamo Mathe, Magistrate Paul du Plessis asked Ngcobo to comply, so that the order for his matter could be finalised. The musician replied that he understood, and would oblige. The hearing is expected to resume on January 30. Ngcobo was jovial as he entered the Johannesburg Magistrate's Court on Friday from the holding cells, greeting everyone. Soon after his case was postponed, the rapper shouted to his mother, who was seated in the packed gallery. "It is only a matter of a week, mother. One more week, mama," he shouted, as he was led back to the cells. READ: Pitch Black Afro bail decision to be made before the weekend Ngcobo's bail application has been delayed over the past two weeks because the State was confirming the address where he intends to live if he is released on bail. Ngcobo is facing charges of premeditated murder and defeating the ends of justice, after his wife Catherine Modusane died at a Johannesburg bed and breakfast on December 31. She had sustained injuries to her upper body. Previously, News24 reported that a member of social justice group Vuka Mzansi Movement, Khanyisani Vilakazi, had said that he knew the couple personally and that a fight had apparently occurred between the two on the night Modusane died. READ: The dark side of Pitch Black Afro "Apparently there was physical contact. They fought and, apparently, Trisha (Modusane) went outside to seek help and went back again," Vilakazi said.  WATCH: Duduzane Zuma's culpable homicide trial postponed to March The culpable homicide case against Duduzane Zuma was postponed to March 26 in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday. WATCH: Chinese national shot and wounded, cash stolen in Johannesburg A Chinese national was shot and wounded and cash stolen out of his vehicle when several armed robbers pounced on his car south of Johannesburg yesterday. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. WATCH: This 30-year-old family business is a school hotspot for Joburg families Gauteng schools open on Wednesday and parents are on the hunt for affordable school uniforms. WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.