Sarah Evans Photographer and filmmaker Justin Sullivan. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Three Betty's Bay residents narrowly escaped injury – or worse – with the help of photographer and filmmaker Justin Sullivan on Friday as a roaring fire ravaged the Overstrand area. The three were among scores of residents who had to evacuate the coastal town as smoke and flames threatened to engulf it. Sullivan, currently making a documentary about wildfires, had arrived in Betty's Bay just after 14:00 on Friday afternoon when he spotted trouble. He told News24 on Sunday that the smoke-filled streets caused extremely low visibility. Through the thick smoke, Sullivan saw a man walking down the road and disappear. He drove towards him, unable to travel faster than about 10km/h due to the low visibility. 'Extremely bad position' Sullivan hooted at the man, but he could not hear him. The man was in an "extremely bad position", as the fire was moving closer to him, and Sullivan reached him just as the flames began crossing the road to where he was. Sullivan took the man to emergency workers stationed at a roadblock on the edge of town. Returning to Betty's Bay, Sullivan then spotted an elderly couple huddled together on the side of the road, next to their burning car. They were trying to get into the vehicle to leave town, but it caught alight. He also took them to safety. Sullivan said he was just one of many people – including emergency services workers and ordinary people – who helped others that day. "I'm very impressed that no one was killed," he said, adding that the fire came down the mountain and entered the town so quickly that many people had no time to prepare to evacuate. Currently no immediate danger At least 31 houses have been destroyed in the fires which savaged the Overstrand areas of Franskraal, Betty's Bay and Karwyderskraal. The fires started when a man allegedly set off flares about two weeks ago. Shelton April,34, is expected back in the Caledon Magistrate's Court on Monday. He faces a charge of contravening the National Environmental Management: Protected Areas Act, for allegedly causing a fire, discarding a burning object in a place where it could start a fire, and acting in a manner likely to cause fire, Western Cape police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel André Traut said previously. Meanwhile, while some fires in the Overstrand area were still active early on Sunday morning, these were largely reported to be in inaccessible places such as high up on the Onrus mountain, and there appeared to have been no immediate danger to people or property. According to the joint operations centre for the fires, assistance was needed to keep the Hemel-en Aarde, Karwyderskraal and Franskraal roads and airspace open. It is understood that firefighters were not only being delayed in getting to hotspots by traffic congestion, but also faced poor visibility from the smoke, and problems with people flying drones.  WATCH: Photographer Justin Sullivan rescues three people from the blaze   WATCH: At least 31 houses destroyed in Overstrand wildfires; video shows devastation in Betty's Bay At least 31 houses have been completely destroyed and 28 partially damaged by wildfires on the coastal Overstrand region in the Western Cape. WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. WATCH: Cape pupil awarded for matriculating after surviving deadly fire Lance Minnies came close to losing his life in a deadly 2016 fire and almost gave up on his studies when he recovered. But it was the hope for a better future and the support of caring people at his school that pulled him through. WATCH: Western Cape firefighters end gruelling day with uplifting song A group of firefighters returned to their base at the Crassula hall in Betty's Bay on Friday, with song and dance. WATCH: Overstrand fire rages on Air support has been brought in to battle a large fire in the Overstrand area in the Western Cape. The fire has devastated areas close to Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els. WATCH: Used car dealership goes up in flames The New Year got off to a bad start for the owner of this used car dealership in Goodwood, Cape Town. 
Tony McGeer, owner of Mc Gee's Auto says he received a phone call in the early hours of January 2, alerting him to a fire at his dealership. WATCH: Train up in flames in Mayfair Two carriages of a passenger train caught fire at Mayfair Station, west of Johannesburg on Sunday. WATCH:  Fire rages out of control near Hermanus Firefighters from the Overstrand Municipality have spent the last 24 hours fighting an out of control fire about 10km from Hermanus in the Western Cape. WATCH: Firefighter fight blaze to save hectares of Paarl fynbos destroyed in fire At least 500ha of 15-year-old fynbos was lost in the fire that swept through part of Paarl mountain, the Drakenstein municipality said as they scaled down on operations on Friday. WATCH: Fire rages through Paarl mountains Firefighters are battling a fire raging through the mountains in Paarl, Western Cape. WATCH: St Francis Bay residents evacuated over runaway fire The Kouga Municipality in the Eastern Cape has ordered residents of St Francis Bay to evacuate their homes due to a runaway fire currently burning down a number of houses in the area on Tuesday. WATCH: Truck carrying bitumen catches fire Part of the R21 near Irene in Pretoria was covered in a cloud of black smoke as a truck transporting bitumen caught fire. WATCH: From the cockpit - Pilot's view of the Garden Route fires Firefighting efforts intensified on the Garden Route in the Southern Cape this past weekend, as fires raged, leaving destruction in their wake. WATCH: This Garden Route 'firenado' is actually a fire whirl "Firenados" are more correctly called fire whirls, explained South African Weather Service chief forecaster Kevin Rae after a video capturing the phenomena made the rounds over the weekend. Quick-thinking couple saves sleeping man in burning Durban beachfront building A man was saved at the Durban beachfront on Friday morning, thanks to some quick thinking. WATCH: Outpouring of support in Pretoria after 300 people left homeless following shack fires On Saturday afternoon, 62 shacks burnt down in Plastic View informal settlement adjacent to the NG Gemeente in Moreletapark, Pretoria. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. WATCH: Edenvale fire victims overwhelmed by donations after losing everything Rebecca Mtya and her mother recently lost everyting in a fire, but members of the Edenvale community have opened up their hearts and wallets in order to get them back on their feet again. WATCH: Farming community in George is a ghost town following a fire that claimed 8 lives The farming community of Farleigh in the Southern Cape is a ghost town following a fire that claimed eight lives on Tuesday. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits. Losing everything is heartbreaking - Vrygrond resident The City of Cape Town is conducting assessments on the fire that ravaged through Vrygrond near Muizenberg in Cape Town on Thursday night.

According to the City, the fire started at about 17:30 and up to 120 shacks were destroyed.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.