Sharlene Rood WATCH | Wife, colleagues pay tribute to metro cop killed by taxi A Durban metro police officer, who was run over and killed while on duty outside the Galleria Mall in Amanzimtoti, will be laid to rest on Monday morning. A Durban metro police officer, who was killed while on duty outside the Galleria Mall in Amanzimtoti, will be laid to rest on Monday morning.
The funeral and memorial service of inspector Johan Deysel (59) is set to begin at 10:00 at the Amanzimtoti Civil Hall. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A total of 26 people were killed in a horror crash on the N1 north, outside Modimolle, Limpopo. Watch.WATCH  A Durban metro police officer, who was run over and killed while on duty outside the Galleria Mall in Amanzimtoti, will be laid to rest on Monday morning. The funeral and memorial service of Inspector Johan Deysel, 59, was set to begin at 10:00 at the Amanzimtoti Civic Hall. Durban metro police spokesperson Superintendent Glen Ndlovu told News24 that Deysel, who had been stationed in Isipingo, would receive full police honours, as he had been killed in the line of duty. Ndlovu said Deysel had been a long-serving member, with 35 years of service. "He was a good man, highly dedicated to his job, a very polite, disciplined gentleman." A colleague who asked to remain anonymous told News24 that Deysel’s death would leave a void. "It’s like losing a family member," he said. WATCH: Pedestrian mowed down by taxi driving in the wrong lane "People often say when somebody dies that they leave a gap, but his death will leave a massive void. He made such a contribution to our department that this will be widely felt for a very long time." The colleague posted video footage online of Deysel’s wife and other colleagues praying at the scene of his death - as a way to counter some of the negative commentary the incident evoked on social media. Deysel was monitoring a stop street in Arbour Road outside a mall on the evening of Friday, January 11, when a taxi disregarded it and mowed him down. Metro police had decided to set up a road block after a councillor in the area had been inundated with complaints that drivers tended to completely disregard the stop signs outside the mall. A statement released by Durban metro police following Deysel’s death described the taxi driver’s actions a "grossly blatant and reckless". "The taxi driver never slows down at any stage. He instead veered to the left and tried to 'squeeze' through the police member and the two vehicles standing off on his left. This makes it abundantly clear that the taxi driver had no intention to stop. He saw the police officer very well, hence trying to veer around him; knocking the police officer down in the process." Video footage of the incident, capturing Deysel’s death, was widely circulated on social media. Many users commented that Deysel was at fault, prompting Durban metro police to ask social media users to refrain from making "negative commentary". "The video footage starts at the juncture where the member steps over to stop the taxi. It does not show the clearly marked stop street that the taxi driver had just blatantly disregarded," Ndlovu said in the statement. "The sheer speed of the taxi, clearly shows that the taxi driver had just disregarded the stop sign, actually at high speed." The driver of the taxi was arrested and will face charges of reckless and negligent driving, culpable homicide, attempted murder and attempting to flee the accident scene.   WATCH: Cyclists attacked by 'furious' motorist near Stellenbosch Brendon Jacobs and Jandre Du Raan have been left traumatised after a motorist attacked the pair riding ahead of him near Stellenbosch on Sunday. WATCH: Bosasa and #StateCapture | Here's what you need to know... Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Woman completes epic drive from Scotland to Cape Town in a 1958 Morris Minor Laura Morrison has travelled from Scotland to South Africa in1958 Morris Minor to raise funds for cancer research. WATCH: Newborn found in bin might get a new lease on life An abandoned KwaZulu-Natal newborn found in the bin might soon have a new place to call home. Watch. WATCH: Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson emerges as 'kingpin of bribes' Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson has emerged as the absolute kingpin in the Bosasa empire of bribes, intimidation and cold hard cash. WATCH: Khayelitsha school bids to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place Chairperson of Enkanini Primary's School Governing Body Andile Lili shows what the school is doing in a bid to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place at the school in Khayelitsha   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.