Kaveel Singh Outgoing Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga launched an all-out attack on his City manager on Friday when he blamed him for the irregular awarding of a multimillion-rand tender to engineering company GladAfrica. The Auditor-General declared the awarding of the tender irregular. In statement on Friday, Msimanga blamed City manager Dr Moeketsi Mosola, saying vital information relating to the contract had not been passed on to the mayoral committee. Msimanga said it was found that the City procured beyond its scope and thus far spent R317m in irregular money on the contract. WATCH: Conterfeit goods confiscated in by-law enforcement operation Thirteen bags of counterfeit goods valued at R700 000.00 was confiscated in Tshwane on Wednesday. "First, the exclusive appointment of GladAfrica in place of what was meant to be a panel of service providers, and the price tag of the award, was never properly reported either to the mayoral committee or council by the City manager." READ: Exclusive: GladAfrica scandal: Mosola quietly concedes tender was irregular says official He added that legal advice warned Mosola that awarding the contract would be irregular. "He ignored the opinion, [and it] was never disclosed to the mayoral committee or the municipal council by the City manager as part of his formal supply chain management reporting duties." Msimanga continued: "We have done and continue to do our duty in holding a deeply compromised City manager to account." He also called Mosola the "mastermind behind the awarding of the contract". "He stated categorically that all was above board with the contract. This was after I had put pertinent questions to him about the details of the GladAfrica award," he added. Msimanga announced last week that he would step down at the end of the month to focus on his campaign to be the premier of the province. Institutionalised corruption Meanwhile, the ANC in Gauteng says the Auditor-General's finding reflects badly on both the DA and EFF. "The findings by the Auditor-General into the irregular expenditure in the City of Tshwane under the DA-EFF coalition in excess of R1.5bn, confirms beyond any doubt that under the coalition, government corruption has become institutionalised in the municipality," ANC Gauteng provincial executive committee spokesperson Tasneem Motara said in a statement. Motara said the ANC in Tshwane had raised concerns about the awarding of the tender as far back as August 2018 already. "The money for the construction of roads, water and electricity infrastructure, the building of community infrastructure and other key service delivery-related infrastructure is catered for from this budget." "This has seen service delivery collapsing in the City of Tshwane with the municipality earning the title of being the worst-performing metropolitan municipality, according to the Quality of Life Survey (QoLS) 2017/18," Motara said. The party questioned why the DA did not hold Msimanga accountable. "As the ANC, we have to ask that if such theft could take place in just one financial year, and service delivery could grind to a halt in the city under Msimanga's questionable leadership, we only wonder what would happen should he be given the reigns to lead a province such as Gauteng," Motara said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Tshwane mayor visits Pretoria train crash victims' families Tshwane Metro Mayor, Solly Msimanga, visited two families of the deceased from last week's Mountain View train accident.
Msimanga expressed his condolences and offered support with the funeral arrangements. WATCH: Damage to 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard a criminal act – DA The DA has called the damage inflicted on its newly unveiled 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, a 'criminal act'. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: DA leader Mmusi Maimane talks Solly Msimanga's future in the DA Although DA leader Mmusi Maimane refuses to commit to a number, when it comes to the party's ambitions ahead of the general elections next year, he makes it clear he has his eyes set on Gauteng. Mini Budget 2018: Pre budget analysis with Solly A short analysis of what can be expected in the 2018 Mini-Budget speech WATCH: Temperatures to increase after parts of SA experience heavy rain and snowfall South Africans in eastern regions of the country were forced to pack away their shorts and sandals because of icy temperatures. Watch the video above to see snowy scenes across South Africa.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.