Jenni Evans (File, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories An outbreak of foot and mouth disease has led to the temporary suspension of South Africa's FMD-free status, the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries announced on Tuesday. "The matter has been reported to the World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) on Monday (January 7, 2019)," said spokesperson Khaye Nkwanyana. "As a result of this development, the official OIE recognised FMD-free status of South Africa is temporarily suspended." This means any exports where FMD-free zone attestation is required, cannot be certified at present. This followed laboratory testing of samples taken when reports came in of lameness in cattle just outside the FMD Control Zone in the Free Zone. This zone is in the far north of South Africa. Experts from the department and Limpopo's veterinary services were conducting further investigations to verify results and determine the extent of the outbreak. Control measures would be determined by the findings of this investigation. FMD is described as a "severe, highly contagious viral disease which affects livestock with significant economic impact". It affects cattle, pigs (domestic and wild), sheep, goats, and other cloven hoofed animals. It does not affect human beings. Health24: 10 facts on foot and mouth disease Signs of FMD include depressed animals, sores in the mouths of animals causing a reluctance to eat, and lameness. Any suspected cases must be reported to the local state veterinarian immediately. Nkhwenyana said the affected area was under quarantine and no movement of animals and animal products was being allowed. Farmers further away from the outbreak have been cautioned to observe bio-security measures, which means they must not allow any new animals into their herds, and must minimise the movement of their own herds to other farms. WATCH: Protesting Queenstown farmers use their cattle to block the roads Farmers from Queenstown, now called Komani in the Eastern Cape took the streets on Wednesday, demanding that municipality provide them with more land for grazing. Raising cattle a risky business for Venezuelan ranchers Rotting hides on the road are all that is left of Jose Labrador's three butchered cows. Such carnage is common in Venezuela's cattle country, where thieves, squatters and government policy are threatening a vital food resource. Australia's biggest steer spared death sentence This enormous steer in the state of Western Australia has avoided the abattoir because he is too big.

The seven-year-old is believed to be the biggest steer in a country which is home to millions of cattle. Swiss farmer's quest to save cow horns goes to vote Concern over the cruelty of removing a cow's horns had not been one of Switzerland's most pressing political issues. So when livestock farmer Armin Capaul -- inspired by conversations with his cattle -- managed to force a national vote on the ques... With horns or without? Swiss cows on the ballot Switzerland votes this Sunday on an issue of national importance that has divided the Alpine country - whether to subsidize farmers who let their cows' and goats' horns grow naturally. Olho Do Dono - Winner of Startup Battlefield Latin America 2018 Olho Do Dono offers software that uses a portable 3D camera to estimate cattle weight, allowing cattle owners to monitor livestock weight evolution in a frequent and stress-free manner. Winners, losers from new USMCA trade deal The U.S. gets a small win from the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement with greater access to Canada's dairy market, but its auto makers and consumers could lose out with higher costs and prices. As Fred Katayama reports, the big loser could be China. Covered in Cow Dung Discover why World Nomads’ Andre Bolourchi smears himself with cow dung during his travels in Vrindavan, India. Grain train delivers relief to drought-stricken Australian farmers As drought grips Australia's east and the country's weather bureau says no relief is in sight for now, a gigantic train is bringing relief in the form of grain supplies to farmers struggling to feed their livestock. Thirsty cattle swarm Australia water truck A farmer has taken drone footage of cattle swarming a water truck during a drought in New South Wales, Australia. Lipstick on a... cow? Beauty treatments are not reserved for humans. DW visits a beauty pageant for dairy cows, and talks to a stylist who makes his clients udderly beautiful. The winners are not just cute but also very valuable as great mothers and milk machines. Lower cattle costs fatten Tyson Foods' profit Tyson Foods' quarterly profit and sales rose, helped by lower costs for animal feed and falling tax rates. Cow stuck in cattle guard rescued This poor cow got stuck when its legs slipped between the bars of a cattle guard. People the Size of a Fist - Part 1 Delve into the daily life, traditions and customs of the Baka Pygmies. Over the Bull's Backs The Hamer people number no more than 15,000, living in the Omo River Valley at the border between Ethiopia and Sudan. For a boy to become a man they must undertake 3 trials. WARNING: Contains images of animal slaughter. Drone films life on Australian farm Drone footage of a 700 acre family farm in Victoria, Australia. Tasks include operating tractors and construction equipment, working with cattle and fencing. Cow rescued by helicopter A moo-ving unplanned exploration of bovine flight.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.