Sesona Ngqakamba (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Seven teachers who were barred from going back to Eldorado Park Secondary School by frustrated residents have still not been able to return. Gauteng Department of Education spokesperson Steve Mabona said the teachers were awaiting an integration process between the department and the School Governing Body (SGB). "The SGB must say, yes they must come, so that we can fast-track the integration process. As the department, with our officials, we are still engaging the SGB," Mabona said. He said a report by the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) was also expected to be released on Wednesday. "For now, they are still not back at the school, which is quite unfortunate," said Mabona. The impasse at the school started after the teachers allegedly accused the principal of financial mismanagement and racism. A report into the matter said no wrongdoing had been found on the part of any of the educators. The matter has been referred to the SAHRC. Mabona had said that some residents had refused to accept the seven teachers back at the school, News24 previously reported. He had said after the teachers were chased out last year, an investigation had been conducted which cleared all educators of any wrongdoing. On Monday, hundreds of pupils from the Eldorado Park and Noordgesig areas were left stranded after teachers were a no-show. This after the South African Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) had called for a shutdown, alleging racism at Eldorado Park Secondary. The seven teachers were allegedly stopped by the school's SGB and community members from entering the premises. "Fortunately, the strike was called off following an intervention from the Sadtu national office [asking] for its members not to participate in the said strike," Mabona said.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.