Sesona Ngqakamba Economic Freedom Fighters Students Command (EFFSC) Pietermaritzburg branch members (from left) Malibongwe Ngcobo, Thembeka Mpanza and Kuti Khumalo addressing media. (PHOTO: Nhlanhla Nkosi) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Economic Freedom Fighters Students Command (EFFSC) has vowed to take to the streets if the government does not meet its demand for fee-free registration at universities. The organisation believes that charging registration fees excludes many students. EFF Students Command national president, Peter Keetse, explained that many students were accepted at higher education institutions but they did not study their chosen course because they could not afford the registration fees. "Part of [the] sizofunda ngenkani (we will study by force) campaign includes free education for all. "This we agreed upon at one of the resolutions of the EFF Students Command to say, in as much as we are fighting for free education and we did not get the full length of it as it was just said that it's for the poor, what we thought we can at least do is scrap the registration fee because it is being used to exclude many of our students," he said on Tuesday. Department of Higher Education deadline Keetse said the organisation wrote to the Department of Higher Education about the issue in December 2018 and gave them until January 9 to respond to their memorandum. If the department failed to respond, they would have no other choice but to take to the streets, he warned. When asked whether they were working with other student councils led by other political parties, Keetse said: "We haven't had a formal meeting and an agreement with other political formations but ordinarily, this is one of the struggles that they should support and join us because this does not only affect students command members on the ground, but the general student population." No student expected to pay registration However, Sasco (South African Students Congress) president Avela Mjajubana said their understanding was that no student, particularly those who came from the poor and working-class backgrounds, were expected to pay registration fees. "You would understand that the majority of our students are under the bracket of R350 000 and below and those are now accommodated in the National Student Financial Aid Scheme. No one from them is expected to pay any registration and that's where we stand," Mjajubana said. He added that they would fight back if any institution requested registration fees from students who fell within that bracket. The Department of Higher Education said it would comment on the organisation's demands later on Tuesday, once it had more information. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Queuing won't guarantee university admission The University of Johannesburg is urging prospective students to register online Instead of queuing on campus. WATCH: EFF supporters storm Vodacom stores Self-declared members and supporters of the EFF, many in EFF T-shirts, attacked at least two Vodacom stores over the weekend. Land expropriation: EFF says it's race issue; DA questions process Court action to prevent Parliament from amending the Constitution to allow for expropriation without compensation seems imminent as parties opposing an amendment to section 25 all sang from the same hymn sheet. WATCH: Debonairs Pizza shop threatened with closure over working conditions A video has surfaced of social activist and former EFF Students' Command leader Mpho Morolane embroiled in a heated exchange with a Debonairs franchise owner. WATCH: EFF expected to address VBS claims The Economic Freedom Fighters will on Tuesday address the media on the VBS Mutual Bank report released by the South African Reserve Bank last, titled The Great Bank Heist. WATCH: Suicide scourge forces students to march for better mental health support Around 100 students held a silent march through the University of Pretoria's main campus on Thursday.

This follows 23 reported attempted suicides by students at the institution in 2018 alone. WATCH: TUT students march to the police ministry over student death Chaos erupted on Wednesday as around 300 students marched through the Pretoria CBD protesting over the death of a student who was allegedly shot by police last week. WATCH: University of Limpopo, South Africa, students walk out of philosophy test University of Limpopo students this week walked out of an Educational Philosophy test.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.