Jenni Evans Durbanville fire. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Three firefighters were injured as they battled a veld fire that also burnt down a house in Durbanville, Cape Town, on Thursday, city fire and rescue spokesperson Theo Layne said. "They sustained hand burns, face burns and stress injuries," said Layne of the blaze that razed one house and burnt surrounding veld. "The fire is contained now," he said mid-afternoon. Layne said the fire started in the veld surrounding the properties, and spread quickly to the thatched roof house. "It is gone, completely," said Layne, of the thatched roof house. Meanwhile, a former neighbour of the house that burnt down, ex-Bok and surfer Rob Louw, said the devastation to the area he lived in for 28 years before selling, was very upsetting. "I hope they're alright," said Louw, who used to own the small holding next door to the house that burnt down. Louw said people were calling him, thinking he still lived there. He had seen that the garden of his old house was burnt, along with the trees the family had planted over the decades burnt down. "All those memories gone," he said. That particular property is being prepared for development. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH- Aerial footage shows Lion's Head fire aftermath Aerial footage shows Lion's Head fire aftermath taken from one of the Working on fire Helicopters WATCH: Fire engulfs Lion's Head Families living in Sea Point, Cape Town evacuated their homes on Sunday evening as the flames that engulfed the lower slopes of Lion's Head near Quarry Hill were coming down on them. WATCH: Video shows razed homes after fire sweeps through Hartenbos, Mossel Bay Two houses have been destroyed in a blaze in Mossel Bay's Hartenbos Heuwels. WATCH: Firefighters leave Overstrand with song and dance The firefighters who tirelessly battled to bring a raging fire in the Overstrand area under control have held a parade to thank the community for their support. WATCH: Fire rescue Bambi trotting on the road to recovery At just a few months old, a rescued baby Cape Grysbok has touched the hearts of the many residents of the Cape overstrand area, which has recently been underthreat by a devastating fire for two weeks. 'The fire was higher than the roof here'- Hermanus farmer "Camphill, you've got 30 minutes until that fire is on you." These were the chilling words that came through as a Hermanus farm community, housing 54 intellectually disabled patients, was forced to evacuate. WATCH: Betty's Bay fire victim shares heartbreaking experience of the blaze A Betty's Bay resident has spoken out about the trauma of losing her home in a fire that raged through the town at the weekend. WATCH: At least 31 houses destroyed in Overstrand wildfires; video shows devastation in Betty's Bay At least 31 houses have been completely destroyed and 28 partially damaged by wildfires on the coastal Overstrand region in the Western Cape. WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.