Canny Maphanga WATCH: 'ANC is killing us' - DA unveils billboard listing names of Marikana, Life Esidimeni victims DA leaders and supporters marched on Wednesday to unveil a new giant billboard in Johannesburg. DA leader Mmusi Maimane unveiled a billboard listing the names of those who died at Marikana, in the Life Esidimeni tragedy and the children who drowned after falling into pit latrines. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories DA leader Mmusi Maimane says the political party will not rest until there is justice for the families of Life Esidimeni victims. "What took place [with] Life Esidimeni was a stain on the conscience of the South African government. "None of us would have thought that such an act would have been committed in our democratic country," Maimane said on Thursday. About 144 psychiatric patients died when the health department moved 1 700 people from Life Esidimeni to ill-equipped NGOs and state facilities. This occurred under the auspices of former Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu. Maimane's sentiments were shared at a Remember Esidimeni service outside Premier David Makhura's office in Mary Fitzgerald Square, Johannesburg. WATCH: Angry Life Esidimeni victims' relatives tear down DA billboard His comments came after there was outrage about a DA billboard ahead of the elections, which listed the names of several victims of tragedies in South Africa, including the one involving Life Esidimeni. Angry family members damaged the billboard, who said that the DA did not have their consent to use the names. But Maimane apologised for the billboard and said the intention was never to hurt the families. "I know that the decision opened up their wounds. "I have spoken to these families and I want to say as a leader, that it was not our intention to hurt you and for that, I truly apologise," he said. To date, 21 Life Esidimeni patients are still missing. "One hundred and forty-four people have been recorded so far, but what is most painful is that we do not know the real number. The Gauteng provincial government must account. "I want to assure Makhura and the ANC that you are not going to intimidate us. We will fight for these families." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Damage to 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard a criminal act – DA The DA has called the damage inflicted on its newly unveiled 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, a 'criminal act'. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. WATCH: DA leader Mmusi Maimane talks Solly Msimanga's future in the DA Although DA leader Mmusi Maimane refuses to commit to a number, when it comes to the party's ambitions ahead of the general elections next year, he makes it clear he has his eyes set on Gauteng. WATCH: De Lille takes aim at 'rudderless' DA as she announces resignation On Wednesday 31 October, Cape Town Mayor announced her resignation.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.