Buks Viljoen, Correspondent A woman collects water from the 'pipe of hope' connected from a  borehole at a guesthouse in Bethal. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Fed-up Bethal residents, who have had little or no water over the last 25 days, have launched a silent protest to draw attention to their plight. But it didn't quite go according to plan. "The original plan was to get as many residents as possible to gather at the Bethal Dam and then have one massive bathing session. Around 200 residents pitched up for the gathering," said Michelle Rademeyer, who spearheaded the protest action." However, the "dam bath party", as they nicknamed the gathering, hit an unexpected speed bump when they were told that they could not swim there due to serious water contamination. A broken sewage line in Davel Street caused raw sewage to flow into the dam. It still didn't stop the protest. Instead, an alternative option was quickly found in the form of a fire hydrant. Several residents made use of the improvised shower, washing their hair and bodies. READ: No water for 25 days and counting: Bethal's pipe of hope brings relief Bethal and the nearby Emzinoni township fall under the control of the Govan Mbeki Municipality (GMM), which is based in Secunda. The town is plagued by poor service delivery, especially the supply of water. Rand Water supplies water for the towns under the control of the GMM, and includes Secunda, Kinross, Evander, Trichardt and Bethal. Justice Mohale, spokesperson for Rand Water, confirmed that they reduced the municipality's water flow by 40% and only allowed 60% of the agreed amount of water to reach the municipality due to its debt. "This was done because the municipality didn't heed to an agreement to pay some of the outstanding debt of R87m," said Mohale. Mariaan Chamberlain, a DA councillor in the area, said figures she received from the municipality showed that the outstanding debt was sitting at about R90m. "The municipality is in serious trouble because they owe Eskom R900m as well," she said. READ MORE: SA has over 40 'critical' sewerage plants under close watch Resident Hennie Rademan went as far as laying criminal charges against the municipal manager for violations of the residents' human rights. "The law says it is our right to have decent water but here, every day is another frustration and uphill [struggle] being stuck with no water. The situation is creating a serious health risk as there is not water to use in toilets. "We have, for months, been pleading with the council to address the water issues to no avail," says Rademeyer. Some residents in the town have now been without water for 13 days. Over the weekend, the council contracted two water tankers to bring water to residents. He said residents were told there were numerous pipe breaks which caused the problems which appeared to not be true, as the lack of water from Rand Water seemed to be the actual crisis. Benzi Soko, spokesperson for GMM, said in his response to a series of questions sent to him by News24 that the council would negotiate with Rand Water. "Water is a constitutional right and must not be trampled on. We already paid Rand Water R16m," he said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Thailand takes top down approach to Bangkok smog The Thai government is trying to resolve a dangerous air pollution problem in Bangkok, by seeding clouds to produce rain and using water cannons to clean streets and the air. Colette Luke has more. Australian authorities warn about heat as temperature soars With a heatwave stifling southeastern Australia the best place to be is in the water, as animals and Australians discovered on Tuesday. Rescuers lift helicopter wreckage from water after Rio crash Brazilian rescue teams lift the wreckage of a military police helicopter out of the water after it crashed in Rio de Janeiro's Guanabara bay after it crashed, killing one and injuring three. Dozens of brave aliens dressed Berliners plunge into icy lake A group of Berliners, dressed up as aliens, took a dip into Orankesee lake as part of a traditional ice swimming carnival. The 80 participants didn’t fear plunging into waters, which were reported to be three degrees celsius. Refugee homes under water More than a third of Lebanon's population is refugees. Storm Norma's left many of their homes flooded. Melting ice caps Videographic illustrating melting ice caps. The world's polar ice caps are shrinking as the climate warms, leading to rising sea levels. Sterlite Copper to resume operations? Sterlite Copper has approached the Tamil Nadu government to renew the consent to operate the Tuticorin plant. The company has asked the government to restore electricity and water connection to the plant. Leonardo DiCaprio's mother soaks fans Leonardo DiCaprio's mother Irmelin Indenbirken has been spraying water at fans who have been trying to come near his home in Los Angeles. 'Yellow Vest' protesters hit with police water cannon, tear gas in Paris Paris police fired water cannon and tear gas to repel "yellow vest" demonstrators from around the Arc de Triomphe monument on Saturday (January 12) in the ninth straight weekend of protests against French President Emmanuel Macron's economic reforms. Clashes erupt as France's 'yellow vests' stage fresh protests Police use tear gas grenades and water cannons near the Arc de Triomphe to dispel yellow vest protesters who are staging fresh protests in Paris against French President Emmanuel Macron. Kabul faces water crisis A shortage of rain, a booming population and wasteful consumption have drained Kabul's water basin and sparked a race to the bottom as households and businesses bore deeper and deeper wells in search of the precious resource. Snow has fallen in th... MMJ says MediPharm Labs replenishes cannabis inventory 11 Jan 2019 - MMJ Group Holdings (ASX:MMJ) says MediPharm Labs is already replenishing and increasing inventory to ensure uninterrupted cannabis oil supply for its existing customers for Q1 2019. AJ Lucas Group update oil flow from Balcombe 11 Jan 2019 - AJ Lucas Group (ASX:AJL) says that Angus Energy reports the well test of the Balcombe Kimmeridge Layer as having naturally flowed at 853 barrels of oil per day equivalent. Garment wage protests rock Bangladesh for fifth day Bangladeshi garment workers in Dhaka demonstrate for the fifth day in a row to demand higher wages, following deadly clashes with police earlier in the week. Garment wage protests rock Bangladesh for fifth day Bangladeshi garment workers in Dhaka demonstrate for the fifth day in a row to demand higher wages, following deadly clashes with police earlier in the week. Murray Cod Australia says no effect from Darling River fish deaths 10 Jan 2019 - The Board at Murray Cod Australia (ASX:MCA) says their fish stocks have not been affected by the recent fish deaths on the Darling River. Miracle-Gro Twelve indoor growing system Miracle-Gro Twelve is a water based indoor growing system that is designed to grow plants year round. My First Award: Michelle Yeoh Fishing for compliments? Michelle Yeoh’s first award was for being a water baby. NCC Says It Received orders worth Rs 2,890 Cr In Dec YD Murthy, Executive Vice President Finance, NCC, says that their company received orders worth Rs 2,890 Cr pertaining to roads, buildings, water and environment divisions in December 2018. UK Warehousing Association confirms Brexit stockpiling The UK Warehousing Association (UKWA) warns that Brexit is already affecting capacity in Britain’s supply chains. The UKWA also stresses that the biggest effect of Brexit on the industry has been a so-called ‘Brexodus’ of eastern European workers. India-Pakistan water dispute explained India-Pakistan water dispute explained Vyf jaar later het Kimberleigh geen vrees vir water Kimberleigh, die hond wat vyf jaar gelede deur kapt. John Seeley (toe ao.Seeley) uit Kimberley se Groot Gat gered is, was soos 'n "engel" wat na die Seeley-gesin gestuur is.
Die gesin het Kimberleigh ná die reddingspoging in 2013 aangeneem. Brent Surges 15% From Recent Lows Peter McGuire, CEO, XM.com on oil on the upmove once again and supply cut hopes driving oil higher. Crude Rises Once Again On Supply Cut Hopes Wall Street rises for a second day in a volatile session as U.S. and China began trade negotiations while Asian markets largely mixed in early morning trade and much more on today’s agenda. Greeks Invented the World's First Computer - 2000 Years Ago The world's first analog computer is more than 2,000 years old. Christians celebrate Epiphany with swim in Istanbul The Patriarch of Constantinople celebrates the Epiphany Mass before blessing the waters of the Golden Horn with a cross that young Greek Orthodox Christians recovered by diving into the icy water. The winner this year is Mihalis Vosnakiris. California, Nevada eye lower-than-normal snowpack Winter storms have coated California and Nevada's Sierra Nevada mountains in snow, but the drought-prone region is still off to another drier-than-normal start to the crucial wet season. Analyst: Apple's woes are more to price than China Apple stock went into a steep slide Thursday after the company reported a slowdown in iPhone sales in China, a hugely important market for the company. Daniel Ives of Wedbush Securities blames Apple's pricing model along with supply and demand. Boiling water fail Man pouring boiling water. Hundreds ring in 2019 by plunging into icy waters in Boston Hundreds of people welcome the new year by plunging into the icy waters off the eastern coast of the United States, in Boston, where water temperatures hovered around 7 degrees celsius. Indian village prays for mine miracle Fifteen Indian miners have been trapped for more than two weeks after water from a river poured into the illegal Ksan mine. Saheb Ali survived by holding onto an electric cable, but three of his friends are now feared to be dead. Volunteers drop water for migrants near the US-Mexico border Volunteers of the NGO Border Angels leave mineral water and supplies near the end of the fence at the US-Mexico border, in Tecate, California. The increasing militarization of the border is forcing the immigrants to try and make way through danger... Voorsorgmaatreëls volg nadat 'n dam se oorloop in Benoni aan die Oosrand deur water beskadig is. Voorsorgmaatreëls volg nadat 'n dam se oorloop in Benoni aan die Oosrand deur water beskadig is. Camp of displaced Syrians flooded by heavy rain Heavy rains flood a camp of displaced Syrians in Atme, near the Turkish border. More Relief For Sugar Mills? Ethanol deliveries against new contracts to reflect only in March said Atul Chaturvedi, Executive Chairman, Shree Renuka Sugars Ltd. Festive swimmers take to the water for Dublin lifeboats Scores of Christmas Day swimmers braved the cold in Dublin to raise money for local RNLI crews. In Co Dublin, an annual swim to raise funds for the RNLI has been held by Clontarf Yacht and Boat Club for the past 42 years. Macros Turn Positive For India, 'Crude To Stay At $65/Bbl' Demand for crude has not kept pace with supply, but optimistic in Indian equity markets led by crude fall said Sunil Singhania, Founder, Abakkus Asset Manager. Thousands make ice fog to mark solstice Residents of Heilongjiang in China spray hot water into freezing air to mark the shortest day. Energy efficient water pumps in Jordan Jordan is one of the driest countries in the world. The water sector accounts for some 15 percent of the country's electricity use. Energy efficient pumps aim to reduce that consumption and limit the harm done to the environment. Bubs secures deal with NZ goat dairy farmers 21 Dec 2018 - Bubs Australia Limited (ASX:BUB) has secured additional goat milk supply with Central Dairy Goats Ltd, representing an established group of goat dairy farmers on the North Island of New Zealand. Underwater Rugby - Explained! You may think you've seen it all - but let me introduce you....to Underwater Rugby!  A group of divers in Russia meet once a week to particpate in what appears to be an bizarre hybrid of Quidditch, water polo and scuba-diving. Still confused, inst... Bustling Ugandan border town on high alert for Ebola At the Mpondwe border those arriving from the Democratic Republic of Congo wash their hands and shoes in chlorinated water and have their temperature taken for signs of fever before they are permitted to cross into Uganda, as authorities increase ... Fed hikes interest rates The U.S. Federal Reserve raised interest rates and said it was keeping the core of its plan to tighten monetary policy intact. Kimberley 2 dae sonder water Derrick Karsten, waterverspreidingdsbestuurder, en Patrick Mabilo, burgemeester van die Sol Plaatje-munisipaliteit, praat oor die lekplekke in Kimberley wat Donderdag en Vrydag herstel gaan word. Kimberley sal in dié tydperk sonder water wees. Seal pup numbers increase on Farne Islands Atlantic grey seal pup numbers at one of the largest colonies in England, just off the Northumberland coast, have reached a new record thanks to a good supply of food and lack of predators, the National Trust says.

Over the last five years the ov... Poverty in Haiti seen in Port-au-Prince's Jalousie neighborhood On the hills of Port-au-Prince, a chaotic jumble of structures stretches ever farther into the distance: Haiti's capital is suffering under the weight of high inflation, endemic corruption and a perilous drop in the value of its currency. Jalousie... Protesters and police clash in Brussels over UN migration pact Some 5,500 protesters gathered in Brussels after calls from Flemish right-wing parties. Police fired tear gas and water cannons on the protesters, arresting at least 90 people. #Brussels, #protest, #migration "Yellow vests": Arrests, water cannons on the Champs-Elysees Police arrest "yellow vest" protesters and use tear gas and water cannons to disperse the crowd on the Champs-Elysees. "Yellow vests" in Bordeaux clash with police Clashes break out in Bordeaux between "yellow vest" protesters and police, who used water cannon to disperse the demonstrators. This is the fifth consecutive Saturday of nationwide protests, which have so far been largely peaceful. Yemen truce lets aid into lifeline Hodeidah port Yemenis in Hodeidah are daring to hope for some respite from the war, as aid floods into the crucial lifeline port. The country's warring parties have agreed a ceasefire in the city at U.N. talks in Sweden.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.