Ntwaagae Seleka Revision, staying active, working hard: Cream of 2018 matric crop share their insights Some of the 2018 National Senior Certificate (NSC) top achievers say that they remain anxious on how well they have done ahead of the results being announced at Midnight on Thursday. While studying is important, so is your private life. This is the mantra of King David Linksfield's head boy and head girl, who managed to obtain a combined 17 distinctions between them. Benjamin Atie and Hannah Bloch attribute their success to juggling their books and their private lives. Atie, 18, obtained distinctions in Accounting, English, Hebrew, History, Isizulu, Life Orientation, Mathematics, Physical Sciences and Advanced Programme Mathematics. - Sign up to receive your matric results and you could win R10 000! Benjamin Atie obtained 9 distinctions He is an energetic young man, who is thoughtful and kind and always ensured younger students were welcomed and looked after. "It was an enjoyable experience and have learnt a lot. I love Maths and English. My English teacher was inspiring," he said. Atie started doing isiZulu in Grade 3 and found the language interesting. "I love the language, for me it was simple. It was like doing Mathematics and my family supported me a lot in ensuring that I know and understand the language." Gap year "For me, studying was important. I practised a lot and read more. I also spent some of the time researching the subjects online to obtain better marks," said Atie. He valued the support his family offered him last year. "I thank my parents for all the support they gave me. They pushed me to study and assisted me in my studying. The way my family supported me I felt like matric was not on me, but on them," he said. Atie didn't hit the books all the time, and made time for his friends. "My friends were unbelievable and were always encouraging me to work harder. Although I could not go out often, I spent time with them as a break from my books. I studied in the evenings and mornings while writing my examinations." Atie will be taking a gap year touring Israel this year. He is still trying to decide whether to study medicine or actuarial science in 2020. Worked consistently Bloch, 18, attained distinctions in Accounting, Afrikaans, English, Hebrew, Life Orientation, Physical Sciences, Advanced Programme Mathematics and Mathematics. She worked consistently throughout her examinations and ensured that she concentrated more on past examples and revision. "I had a better understanding of my work and felt very prepared for a range of different questions. I also ensured that my environment was healthy and productive. I had an excellent support system that motivated me to work hard, as well as to take breaks regularly. "Through this, I learnt the importance of a balanced approach in a stressful situation. Thus, I divided my time into studying, exercising and spending time with my friends and family. Throughout my school career, I devoted much of my time to outreach activities. Hannah Bloch obtained 8 distinctions "This provided me with an appreciation of the privilege of education that I received. I was therefore constantly reminded of the responsibility I had to achieve my full potential. As an ambitious person, I realised that setting goals is very important," said Bloch. She also praised her teachers for being supportive and always available for extra help and to provide a deeper conceptual understanding of the material. "…as an ambitious person, I realised that setting goals is very important. One of my goals is to study actuarial science which requires high marks; pushing me to work hard and push myself constantly. "I have decided to take a gap year next year, during which I am travelling to Asia and Europe as part of a volunteer programme. This will allow me to learn about different cultures and grow through seeing different parts of the world; as well as enabling me to give back," she said. Bloch will also return to her books in 2020 to study actuarial science at Wits. - See our Matric Results page.  WATCH: SAPS escort pupils to matric farewell in Nyala Making an entrance is an extra bonus point when making a statement at a matric farewell. One couple in particular, turned heads when they rocked up in a police Nyala van escorted by police officers at their farewell in Newcastle over the weekend. Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Head boy and top achiever ready to 'get his future started' King David High School Linksfield's 2017 head boy, who earned seven distinctions in the IEB matric exams, has some advice for those entering their matric year. Here are the alternate avenues to explore if your matric results weren't ideal Here are the alternate avenues to explore of your matric results weren't ideal Matric pass rate should be at 100% - Wits professor Wits professor Marissa Rollnick says a matric pass rate of 100% is achievable. 'Consistency was key for me' - Rebecca Haines, top matric mathematics achiever Top matric mathematics achiever Rebecca Haines from Rustenburg High School For Girls in Cape Town says her excellent results came down to working consistently. Matric exams: How does upward mark adjustment work? Upward mark adjustments usually take place when exam papers are proven to be more difficult than previous years. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. 'I strategised; I had a timetable and I stuck to it' - top matric achiever Mapula Sebati Thousands of matrics throughout the country will know their individual results on Wednesday. However, the top achievers for the class of 2015 were celebrated on Tuesday after the official announcement by Minister of Education, Angie Motshekga. Top SA matric says his rare disease motivated him to study medicine this year After missing almost two terms of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker still managed to be the overall top achiever of 2015. WATCH: You have a second chance to ace matric Universities across the country are about to open up their doors. Although the national pass rate was 71. 5%, many students did not obtain the necessary results to get them into institutions of higher learning. 'The bigger plan is to become president,' says top matric performer Tumelo Mashigo, part of the class of 2017, hopes to one day be president.

The 18-year-old was the second best performing learner with special needs among the most recent matriculants and hopes to make the world a better place one day. WATCH: 5 tips to acing your matric exams Matric examination got underway on Monday across the country. Here are a few tips for A+ results.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.