Alex Mitchley A fire in Wupperthal town. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Following a devastating fire that gutted houses and buildings in Wupperthal near Clanwilliam last week, plans are afoot to demolish all structures that are beyond repair. The blaze, which is being investigated by police, started on New Year's weekend leaving half of the historical village, including the Moravian Mission Station, shops and 53 homes destroyed. Furthermore, at least 200 people have been left homeless. Police are investigating a case of arson. READ: Wupperthal fire: Police investigating arson case after fire ravaged historic town WATCH:  Fire rages out of control near Hermanus Firefighters from the Overstrand Municipality have spent the last 24 hours fighting an out of control fire about 10km from Hermanus in the Western Cape. According to a statement by Wilfred Schrevian Evan Solomons-Johannes, at the directorate for urban management at the City of Cape Town, an agreement was reached on Friday to completely demolish all gutted buildings in the Cederburg town in the Western Cape. Solomons-Johannes has also spoken on behalf of the Moravian Church. Heritage buildings to be demolished He added that approval has also been obtained from the Moravian church and affected homeowners that the gutted buildings be demolished in the interest of public safety as the extent of the damages were severe and beyond repair, according to the assessments conducted by professional structural engineers. The structures that are to be demolished include heritage buildings. Solomons-Johannes said that a team of experts have been commissioned to conduct an assessment for houses that had asbestos and to carefully implement the removal and disposal in line with environmental health requirement prior to the demolition work of the buildings. Water and electricity restored to city Meanwhile, the electricity supply was restored on Friday afternoon, with the water and sanitation within the town back in working order and managed by the church. The school year will also start a week later due to the demolition and recovery work that will be taking place in the coming week. The department of Human Settlements of the Western Cape has also conducted assessments on the need for emergency housing for the fire victims, said Solomons-Johannes. ALSO READ: Devastated Wupperthal appeals for aid: How you can help "A suitable site has been identified within Wupperthal and spatial planning and design efforts are underway. "The Cederberg Municipality is procuring and will provide a tent and temporary toilets for the emergency housing site." The Moravian Church has also thanked the public, churches, organisations and businesses for the overwhelming support to provide relief efforts to the Wupperthal fire victims. Town restriction Solomons-Johannes also said that access to the town has been restricted and that from Monday, the Wupperthal Moravian Mission Station will be restricted due to heavy vehicles, machinery, plant and equipment that will be moving into the town to commence with demolition work. "The police authorities will be establishing a control post that will only permit emergency and essential vehicles and residents access and egress to the town." "Strict control measures will be implemented and motorists including tourists are encouraging to avoid visiting the town or to make use of the road/(s) to minimise disruption on the nearby roads." "Members of the public who wishes to deliver donations to the town are advised that access to the town is restricted." "It is encouraged that donations to be delivered to the Clanwilliam Traffic Department situated in Hospital Street where a donations management centre has been established," Solomons-Johannes concluded.  WATCH: Crash, booze, bang in Cape Town as nearly 12 000 litres of alcohol go down the drain City of Cape Town law enforcement officers popped open more than 16 000 liquor cans and bottles on Thursday as the City prepares for the upcoming festive season. WATCH: Shark spotters: proactive initiative going swimmingly Naveron Lesch is on the lookout for the ocean's most dominant predator, one fully-trained member of a team of 30 Shark Spotters, a proactive early warning shark safety service operating on eight of Cape Town's beaches. WATCH: Criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik shot dead outside Green Point school Reports have emerged that lawyer Pete Mihalik has been murdered in a Cape Town shooting. Absa Premiership 2018/19 profile: Cape Town City A look at the profile of Absa Premiership side Cape Town City ahead of the 2018/19 season. May dons dancing shoes in SA The prime minister shimmied with school kids in Cape Town at the start of her visit to Africa. WATCH: Dan Plato elected as Cape Town mayor Dan Plato has been elected as Cape Town's new executive mayor during a special council sitting on Tuesday. WATCH: This young Khayelitsha artist used drawing to escape drugs and alcohol abuse Luvo Khehla, a second-year graphics design student at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology, says art helped him escape a life of drug and alcohol abuse. What goes on behind-the-scenes on a game show Channel24 was invited to a taping of celebrity trivia game show Tropika Smoooth Fan in Cape Town and we're giving you a behind-the-scenes look! WATCH: Heavy police escort for Mihalik accused Three people appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Thursday on charges for the murder of top advocate Pete Mihalik. WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 2) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 3) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: 'We have nothing' - Vredenburg residents demand better service delivery On Tuesday, residents of Vredenburg in the Western Cape – who have had enough of living in what they described as a "dump" – took to the streets with sjamboks, sticks and knobkieries to demand better service delivery. Preview: 2018 Currie Cup final in numbers Here are some key numbers ahead of Saturday's Currie Cup final between Western Province and the Sharks at Newlands. 'Motivated' Province ready to turn it on against the Sharks Centre Ruhan Nel says that Western Province are motivated to perform at Newlands ahead of the Currie Cup final against the Sharks this weekend. WATCH: MyCiTi bus drivers' 'wildcat' strike continues into second day A "wildcat" strike by MyCiTi employees appeared to enter its second day on Tuesday as the bus service announced disruptions on several routes around Cape Town. El Paso City Hall demolition El Paso City Hall being demolished. Demolition fail! A builder loses his balance while demolishing a concrete platform. Massive Building demolition Massive Building demolition WATCH: #WesternCapeShutdown: Over 250 people march to Parliament against gang violence Over 200 people marched from Keizergracht to Parliament and the Western Cape government provincial offices as part of the #WesternCapeShutdown against gang violence on Wednesday morning. 'It's time for a new political order' - De Lille announces new political party Former Cape Town mayor and DA member Patricia de Lille says she is ready to serve her country under a new political movement. WATCH: Fire rages through Paarl mountains Firefighters are battling a fire raging through the mountains in Paarl, Western Cape. WATCH: Protesters to Ramaphosa: Give us the money you give to the buffalo The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) and other trade unions took to the streets in Cape Town on Thursday to protest against police brutality and low wages. WATCH: This 22-year-old accounting student is changing healthcare in his community When Thembekile Mahintsho's father died in 2015, the 22-year-old accounting student became determined to bring accessible healthcare to his community in Joe Slovo Park, Cape Town. WATCH: Cellphone footage shows violent mob justice on Cape Town promenade On Sunday, the Eden on the bay promenade in Big bay, seemed no different than it usually does on a sunny weekend for the most part of the day. Then the end of the day saw the stretch of grass on the promenade turn into a small war zone. Miley Cyrus is in Cape Town, South Africa Miley Cyrus was spotted shopping in Cape Town, South Africa. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. Boulders Beach - Home of the African Penguin It is one of the world's most Instagrammed beaches. It is nature at its most pristine. And you can even swim with penguins. WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. WATCH: MyCiTi employees' 'wildcat' strike continued on Tuesday A "wildcat" strike by MyCiTi employees appeared to enter its second day on Tuesday as the bus service announced disruptions on several routes around Cape Town. Why Cape Town is turning off its taps South Africa's second largest city is in the midst of a severe drought. WATCH: Cape Town's karate kid raises tournament money through hard work and community support A pint-sized karate kid from Lansdowne in Cape Town has unleashed his inner entrepreneur, raising money to take part in a national karate tournament by selling atchar, dried fruit and sauces at a stall in Rylands. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. VIDEO: 'We pay R2 to use mall toilets' – Cape Town informal settlement residents demand basic servic Five Cape Town communities joined with social justice movements to march to the Cape Town Civic Centre on Thursday. 

The protesters expressed exasperation over the lack of basic services in informal settlements in the city. Man targeted in racist rant on Cape Town, South Africa, bus opens criminal case A man has opened a case of crimen injuria after becoming the target of a racist rant on a bus to central Cape Town on Monday morning. It's time to involve the entire security cluster - Blade Nzimande after latest Cape Town train fire Firefighters have arrived at Cape Town train station to battle yet another train-related blaze after thick, black smoke permeated the air above the station on Tuesday. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits. WATCH: 'A fairy-tale day' as homeless couple exchanges wedding vows A dream came true for Llewellyn Jenniker and Cecilia Jenniker on Tuesday when the homeless couple, who've been living together on the streets for decades, finally tied the knot. The Street Art Galleries of Cape Town Rather than an act of vandalism, many see graffiti art as a form of visual poetry engaging with the people of the city. This is your guide to exploring the open-air galleries of the Mother City in South Africa. WATCH: The Sasol Solar Challenge Sasol Solar Challenge 2018 took place from the 22nd to the 30th of September. WATCH: Forensic teams comb crime scene after Mihalik shooting A police officer calls for assistance moments after criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik was shot dead in his car in Green Point, Cape Town. WATCH: Cape Town matrics beam after receiving IEB marks The young men and women exiting Reddam House Atlantic Seaboard in Cape Town on Thursday couldn't stop smiling when they saw that their hard work had paid off for the IEB national senior certificate exams. Ed Sheeran has a special message for his Cape Town fans Ed Sheeran has announced a second and final show at Cape Town Stadium on Thursday, 28 March 2019. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. The Wonder of Rwanda Kigali is joining the ranks of start-up cities in Africa alongside Lagos, Nairobi and Cape Town. A new start-up center has just opened there. WATCH: Oh beer! Crates of alcohol crash out of beer truck in Cape Town It was unhappy hour for a truck driver who lost a huge load of beer after attempting to turn his vehicle in South Africa on Friday. WATCH: Crowd brutally attacks man armed with paintball gun On Saturday a crowd attacked a man in Seapoint in Cape Town.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.