Correspondent WATCH: Duduzane Zuma case postponed, Jacob Zuma, BLF show support Duduzane Zuma appeared briefly in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Friday. Duduzane Zuma (File, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Duduzane Zuma appeared briefly in the Randburg Magistrate's Court and BLF leader Andile Mngxitama addressed party members who showed up in support of Zuma. Watch.WATCH The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) will reportedly withdraw corruption charges against former president Jacob Zuma's son Duduzane in the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court on Thursday. Business Day reported on Wednesday that Duduzane Zuma's lawyers wouldn't comment until the court process was finalised on Thursday morning. NPA spokesperson Phindi Mjonondwane Aldo reportedly told Business Day the state would comment only after Thursday's court proceedings. According to that publication, the NPA sent a letter to Duduzane Zuma's lawyers on Tuesday, notifying them of the provisional withdrawal of the charges. While the reason for that withdrawal was unknown, the letter follows the NPA's decision to provisionally withdraw charges against Gupta family members and associates late in 2018, in connection with the alleged Estina Dairy Project scam. Free State NPA spokesperson Phaladi Shuping told News24 at the time that South African law enforcement agencies were hard at work, along with those from the UAE and India, to get "more evidence" in the quest to reinstitute the charges against the Guptas. Duduzane Zuma appeared in court on July 9 last year on corruption charges. He was charged with corruption in the Specialised Commercial Crime Court in Johannesburg, News24 reported. He was granted bail of R100 000 and was ordered to hand over his passport. He was charged with corruption for the alleged role he played in an attempt to bribe from deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas at the Guptas' Saxonwold home in 2015. It has been reported that, at a meeting with Duduzane, businessman Fana Hlongwane and one of the Ajay Gupta, Jonas was allegedly offered the position of finance minister, as well as a bribe of R600m. Jonas revealed how he was offered a bribe to take the job of finance minister. It is alleged that Duduzane was a party to the crime because he was present when the offer was made to Jonas by Gupta. Duduzane is also meant to appear in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday on another matter. He is facing two charges of culpable homicide and a count of negligent driving relating to an accident in February 2014, when he crashed into a taxi after losing control of his Porsche on the Grayston Drive off-ramp on the M1, north of Johannesburg. READ: Duduzane Zuma's culpable homicide case postponed yet again   WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma. South Africa's ex-president just signed a record deal Former president Jacob Zuma, who is implicated in a major corruption scandal, has been given a taxpayer-funded record deal. Zuma on land: Less debate, more nationalisation Former President Jacob Zuma said there is too much debate about land expropriation without compensation to his liking, and suggested that land should be nationalised. WATCH: 'It's me, former president Jacob Zuma' - Zuma joins social media Former president Jacob Zuma says he has decided to "move with times" and join various social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. Zuma op Twitter Voormalige president Jacob Zuma het so vir die eerste keer getwiet. PARODY: Jacob Zuma sings Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word The closest SA may get to an apology from Jacob Zuma, is this parody of the president singing Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word. S.Africa: J. Zuma arrives at his hearing over corruption charges Former South African President Jacob Zuma arrives at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of fraud, racketeering and money laundering. 1ST Journalists, supporters and family arrive for J. Zuma's hearing Journalists along with supporters and relatives of former South African President Jacob Zuma arrive at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of registry ... WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan continues testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day2 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan faced intimidation and victimisation for refusing to be party to state capture, the judicial inquiry into state capture headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo heard on Monday. WATCH: Nugent commission deviated from original mandate says Moyane's lawyer Former president Jacob Zuma has entered the fray over the firing of South African Revenue Service (SARS) commissioner Tom Moyane, saying Judge Robert Nugent was not asked to deal with the individual contracts of employees at SARS. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan continues testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day2 / Part1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan faced intimidation and victimisation for refusing to be party to state capture, the judicial inquiry into state capture headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo heard on Monday. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part 3) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part 2) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part1) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma case postponed, Jacob Zuma, BLF show support Duduzane Zuma appeared briefly in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Friday. WATCH: 'Pay back the money' - MP's jeer at EFF's Floyd Shivambu in ironic turn of events EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu found himself on the receiving end of MP's jeering in Parliament on Tuesday, when he was heckled to "pay back the money" during a debate on the VBS Mutual Bank scandal. S Africa's Ramaphosa confirms resignation of finance minister Nene South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa has accepted the resignation of Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene, who has faced calls to resign after he admitted to visiting the Gupta brothers, friends of scandal-plagued former leader Jacob Zuma who have b... WATCH: Jacob Zuma arrives at court to support son Duduzane Former president Jacob Zuma arrived at the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday show support for his son Duduzane, who has been charged with two counts of culpable homicide. 'We don't want any corruption' South Africans share their feelings about Zuma's presidency and what they hope for the future. South Africa's Zuma says he will resign 'with immediate effect' South Africa's President Jacob Zuma has said he will resign "with immediate effect".

Mr Zuma made the announcement late on Wednesday in a televised address to the nation. S Africa 'captured by corrupt elements' South Africa's President Zuma feels "anxious" about his future, says ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. The Zuma presidency: Scandals and successes Jacob Zuma has faced some controversies during his time as ANC leader. 'I never thought we would choose corruption' Makhosi Khoza received death threats after branding President Jacob Zuma "a disgrace".   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.