Jan Gerber Felix Tshisekedi (File: AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Members of the Congolese diaspora living in the Western Cape are rejoicing at the prospect of a change of government in their native land, a spokesperson has said. Leonard Mulunda, spokesperson of the Congolese Community of the Western Cape, told News24 on Thursday that an opposition victory in his home country had been a long and hard-won fight. "It is a landmark victory. We've been fighting for it. Many of us thought we'll never leave South Africa," he said. He estimated that about 80% of the Congolese citizens who live in South Africa would return to the DRC if the situation normalised. Felix Tshisekedi wins DRC's long-delayed presidential election Felix Tshisekedi has won the DRC's long-delayed presidential election. It will be the country's first democratic transfer of power since its independence from Belgium in 1960.
#Tshisekedi #president #DRC Some of his countrymen are qualified medical doctors or other professionals, but are working as car guards in South Africa because their status made it difficult to find work in the country, he added. He said they wanted to engage with South African institutions on how the country changed from apartheid to democracy. "The lesson we learnt [in South Africa] is democracy is not about strong people, it is about a strong system." He said they wanted to build strong institutions in the Congo to hold politicians accountable. Acknowledge Felix Tshisekedi as president Mulunda also called on the South African government to acknowledge Felix Tshisekedi as president and for President Cyril Ramaphosa to personally congratulate him. He acknowledged the "goodwill" shown by outgoing president Joseph Kabila to relinquish power. He thanked South Africans. There isn't clarity yet on the results of the December 30 elections. Election chief Corneille Nangaa declared Tshisekedi the winner with 38.57% of the vote, just ahead of Martin Fayulu with 34.8%, AFP reported. The candidate backed by Kabila, hardline former interior minister Emmanuel Ramazani Shadary, came in a distant third with just 23.8%. The influential Catholic Church notably said the result "does not correspond" with the data collected from polling stations and counting centres by its 40 000 election monitors, although it did not identify the person it believed had won. France contests results France too said Tshisekedi's win was "not consistent with the true results". Ramaphosa "noted the provisional results" released by the DRC's electoral commission, his spokesperson Khusela Diko said in a statement released on Thursday. READ: Ramaphosa 'takes note' of DRC's provisional vote results He called on the Independent National Electoral Commission (CENI) of the DRC to finalise the process with speed to ensure the credibility of the election and to maintain peace and stability. "The president wishes to congratulate all parties and stakeholders in the DRC for ensuring peace and stability during the election processes and urge all regional and international interested parties to refrain from speculation and allow CENI to complete the process," reads the statement. "President Ramaphosa also urges all political parties and their supporters to also allow CENI to perform its legal and constitutional duties without interference and pressure." Election results leave Congo with uncertainty Democratic Republic of Congo's electoral commission declare opposition leader Felix Tsisekedi winner of a contentious presidential election. However vote tallies from Congo's Catholic church point to a different winner, raising the specter of a stand DRC rejects former warlord Bemba's presidential bid The election commission of Democratic Republic of Congo has excluded opposition leader Jean-Pierre Bemba  from the list of approved candidates for December's presidential election. Bemba had spent a decade in prison in The Hague for war crimes, ha... Polls open in Goma: DR Congo presidential election Polls open in Goma, DR Congo for the presidential election. Electors are choosing a successor to President Joseph Kabila, who is stepping down two years after his term limit expired -- a delay that sparked bloody clashes and revived traumatic memo... DR Congo election: Shadary and Kabila their votes Emmanuel Shadary and President Joseph Kabila arrive in a Kinshasa polling station to cast their votes. Months of speculation over Kabila's future ended in August when he threw his weight behind Shadary, a hardline former interior minister and loya... Low-quality infrastrcuture a key issue as DRC election nears Linking the port of Matadi with the capital of Kinshasa, a 350 kilometre road runs through the southwest of the Democratic Republic of Congo. It's a crucial route, but also plagued by danger - representative of the dire state of the country's infr... Congo cartoonist prepares to sketch a new president After 18 years, Thembo Kashauri, Democratic Republic of Congo's pre-eminent political cartoonist, is preparing to draw a new president. Congo's opposition leader wins chaotic presidential election Democratic Republic of Congo's electoral commission declared opposition leader Felix Tshisekedi the surprise winner of the presidential election with 38.57 percent of votes. Christmas comes to the DRC amid a tense political atmosphere Residents of Goma in the Democratic Republic of Congo are preparing for Christmas, buying decorations and toys for children in a tense atmosphere as the presidential election approaches on December 30. Both sides claim lead in DRC's chaotic poll Congo's chaotic election could result in a disputed outcome after both the opposition and the ruling coalition claimed they were heading for victory. David Doyle reports US sends troops to "protect its citizens" in the DRC The US has deployed 80 troops to Gabon to "protect US citizens" in the Democratic Republic of Congo in case violent election protests threaten their safety. #US #troops #DRC Vote counting underway in Goma after DR Congo elections Vote counting is underway in the eastern city of Goma. After two years of delays, crackdowns and political turmoil, the Democratic Republic of Congo voted in presidential elections that will determine the future of Africa's notoriously unstable gi... Congo's election result met with cheers, anger and uncertainty The outcome of Democratic Republic of Congo's election result has been welcome by some as a triumph for democracy, and rejected by others as a coup. DRC election results: reactions from Goma Residents of Goma, the provincial capital of North Kivu in eastern DR Congo, react to the announcement of the provisional results of the presidential election, with opponent Felix Tshisekedi as the winner. The results, announced at four o'clock in... DRC: huge crowds for Kinshasa return of Tshisekedi & Kamerhe Tens of thousands of supporters turn out to welcome Congolese opposition scion Felix Tshisekedi as he returns to Kinshasa to kick off his campaign to replace President Joseph Kabila in next month's election. His running mate Vital Kamerhe joined h... DR Congo election: polling stations open in Kinshasa Congolese citizens arrive to cast their vote as polling stations open in Kinshasa. Millions of electors are expected to turn out to choose a successor to President Joseph Kabila. The election's credibility has already been strained by repeated del... DRC elections: Opponent Fayulu launches presidential bid Opposition candidate Martin Fayulu returns to Kinshasa for the launch of his presidential campaign. Voters on December 23 will choose a successor to  outgoing President Joseph Kabila, who has constitutionally remained in power as caretaker leader ... Congo's president will end his extended rule The president of the Democratic Republic of Congo has ended speculation that he would seek re-election, now well beyond his original term limit. Joseph Kabila's decision to step down eases some fear of a slip back into devastating violence. DR Congo election: candidate Martin Fayulu casts his vote Congolese opposition candidate Martin Fayulu casts his vote in a polling station in Kinshasa. One opinion poll has Fayulu as a clear favourite, garnering around 44 percent of voting intentions. Millions of Congolese citizens are choosing a success... DRC election: mock vote in Beni with makeshift polling stations In Beni, a makeshift vote takes place in response to the postponement of the general elections that are occurring elsewhere in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Youth organisation and members of the population set up makeshift polling stations, wi... DRC election: vote ongoing in Kinshasa polling stations Congolese citizens vote in a polling station in the capital, Kinshasa. Millions of electors are choosing a successor to President Joseph Kabila, who is stepping down after nearly 18 years at the helm. The vote gives DR Congo the chance of its firs... Congolese citizens-in-exile follow DRC election from afar With less than two weeks to go until presidential elections are held in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, thousands of Congolese citizens will not be able to cast their vote. Many have fled the country's conflict and war in the hope of finding... Delays, storms mar start to Congo's presidential vote Voting in Democratic Republic of Congo's long-anticipated presidential election got off to a shaky start on Sunday due to torrential rain in the capital, long delays at some polling stations and broken-down machines. Opposition candidate Felix Tshisekedi votes in DR Congo election Felix Tshisekedi, one of the frontrunner opposition candidates, casts his vote in Kinshasa, DR Congo, in presidential elections that will shape the future of one of Africa's biggest and most unstable countries. 5 things about Joseph Kabila Joseph Kabila has been the leader of the Democratic Republic of Congo for the last 17 years. Who is he? 'Don't worry' - Kabila on delayed vote DR Congo's President Joseph Kabila insists postponing voting in three areas is lawful. One candidate clearly won Congo election - Catholic church Democratic Republic of Congo's Catholic church said on Thursday it was clear which candidate won the country's presidential election, and demanded that the electoral commission publish accurate results.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.