Jan Gerber Die slagspreuk vir vanjaar se verkiesing.   Foto: Christopher Moagi Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The DA has reason to be seriously worried ahead of the
national and provincial elections coming up in May, while the ANC needs to pull
up its socks if it wants to capitalise on the DA's loosened grip on the Western
Cape and smaller parties might also see some gains. This is the conclusion one can draw after looking at the
results of the by-elections in the Western Cape on Wednesday. Sure, one would
be irresponsible to take by-election results as ironclad indicators of what
will happen in an upcoming election, but it does give an indication of shifts
in electoral support when seen in context. The by-election that garnered the most interest to election
result geeks like myself, is the one in Cape Town's Ward 31 – parts of
Bonteheuwel and Valhalla Park. Ward 31's voting patterns over the past few elections and
demographic make-up are similar to many wards on the Cape Flats, which has been
key in the DA winning the metro and the province. As the DA's feud with its then mayor Patricia de Lille
escalated last year, the DA saw a drop on average of about 9% in by-elections
across the province. The by-election in Ward 31 was the first in the metro
since De Lille's departure from the DA. Furthermore, the election came about as
Johnathan Cupido resigned as councillor and DA member in solidarity with De
Lille. De Lille formed a new party, called GOOD. The party, still in its
infancy, did not put up a candidate. When the ballots were counted, the DA saw their support in
the ward drop by about 20 percentage points compared to the 2016 elections.
They received 61.82% of the votes cast, compared to the 81.17% received 3 years
ago. The ACDP on the other hand, which got about 1% in 2016,
soared to a relatively impressive 20.56% of the vote. The ANC rose from 10% to
14%, while the EFF maintained its 3%. Winning a ward with 60% of the vote isn’t bad, but it will
be that 20 percentage points' drop that should worry the DA. The ANC will also
be disappointed that their support only grew with four percentage points, while
the ACDP grew with a whopping 20 percentage points. Given that the DA's loss and the ACDP's growth are more or
less a similar figure, it is a safe assumption that many of the people who voted
for the ACDP, would previously have voted DA. Taken with the ANC's relative small growth, one can say that
there was a sizeable group of people who don't want to vote for the DA, but
would still rather vote for a party other than the ANC. It is therefore a pity (from an election watcher's
perspective) that De Lille's GOOD didn't participate, as the result could have
been an indication whether her party will receive electoral support come May. Furthermore, the voter turnout in Ward 31 was pretty low, at
26.75% of the registered voters in the ward, compared to the turnout of 61.2%
in 2016. While it is not unusual for by-elections to have fairly low turnouts,
it is also indicative of the failure of the DA and ANC, the two biggest parties
in the province, to mobilise their voters and get them to the polls. The DA did, however, take Bergrivier's Ward 5 back from the
ANC. It won the ward in 2011 and 2016, but lost it to the ANC in a by-election
in August 2017. On Wednesday it got 44.71% of the vote, which is about 6
percentage points less than it got in 2016 election, when it got 50.87%. This
is in line with the trend in last year's rural by-elections in the Western
Cape, where the DA support dropped off from the levels it achieved in 2016.
Interestingly, this by-election had a fairly high voter turnout for a
by-election of 55.34%. In the other by-election, Ward 101 in Cape Town –
Kraaifontein's Bloekombos area – the ANC maintained its support in a
stronghold, with the DA failing to make an impression. I visited several voting stations in Ward 31 on Wednesday,
and I was left with the impression that the ANC didn’t go all out in this ward.
For instance, there were far more DA and ACDP posters on the lampposts as I
drove through the neighbourhood. Granted, the ANC has basically admitted that it is a DA ward
it doesn't expect to win, and might have decided to put their scarce resources
to use elsewhere. Keep in mind that their full, expansive election machinery
will click into gear for the national and provincial elections, which is
clearly not the case for by-elections. From an ANC perspective, the DA is in a weakened position
(much of its own doing), but it is not down and out. The ANC will have to up
its game to deliver a knockout blow. Even if the ANC doesn't win the province outright in the upcoming
provincial election, a strong showing in the province could benefit them on a
national level. A large chunk of the DA's national votes comes from Western
Cape, and a poor showing in the province will translate to less seats in the
National Assembly, strengthening the ANC's hand on a national level. This can
become important with a constitutional amendment on expropriation without
compensation on the cards for the Sixth Parliament, and the ANC and EFF at odds
on what that amendment should look like. The DA has some serious soul-searching to do. As things
stand, there is enough evidence to suggest that there is enough voters in the
province who previously voted DA, but whose votes the party can't take for
granted in 2019. You might wonder why I haven't mentioned South Africa's
third largest party, the EFF. The by-election results show little movement in
their nominal support in the province. A national campaign might bring them
more success, but maybe the people of the Western Cape aren't ready for their
brand of fascism just yet. - Jan Gerber reports on politics for News24 from Parliament.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.