Ntwaagae Seleka Tate Makgoe, MEC for Education in the Free State. (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Teaching
in the Free State has already begun in earnest, in order to ensure the province
returns to the top spot next year when National Senior Certificate results are
announced. Free State MEC for education,
Tate Makgoe, told News24 that his teachers started teaching Grade 12 pupils on
Wednesday. Sign-up here to get
your 2018 matric results The province held the number one
spot in the country for two consecutive years. It achieved a 93% matric pass
rate in 2016 and an 86% pass rate in 2017. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. But in 2018, it slipped down to
position two in the country, achieving 87.5%, which is still a 1.5% increase
from the previous year. Gauteng had the highest pass rate with 87.9%. "We are correcting our
mistakes. We want to return to the top where we belong. I am proud to announce
that teaching in the province has started and learners are already in
classrooms preparing for their final examinations. "Teaching is key. I want to
have better results than what we achieved in 2018. I am happy that we saw an
increase from 2017 results, although we could not maintain the top spot,"
he said. Makgoe was full of smiles as
journalists sought interviews with him after the announcement of the 2018
matric results on Thursday. He said that as he listened to
Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga speaking, he thought of a new strategy
that he must implement soon to return to the top. READ: National matric results pass rate is 75.1% "Part of our strategy is to
ensure that we support learners more and do all the things that are needed to be
done. Before the results were announced, we thought we did well as the
province. When I looked at the number one position, it included progressive
learners who played a major role in increasing the number of achievers. "We have set up a new
strategy to support progressive learners more. We are going to intensify our
performance from primary school level, this is where we are preparing our
learners at an early age to easily perform when they reach high school
level," he said. Impoverished
province Makgoe said 90% of the schools in
the Free State were no-fee paying and the majority of learners, if not all of
them, depend on the school feeding scheme programme. "Remember, we are competing
with Gauteng and the Western Cape and we still performed well. These two provinces
have a smaller number of no-fee paying schools compared to our province. They
had an advantage over us because they are exposed to many universities and
other support structures which assist their learners compared to us. "We are a rural province
where the majority of our learners are from poor backgrounds and depend on the
school to ensure that they have something in their stomachs when they are in
our schools. I think that we did not work much harder than expected. This is
the time to go back to basics," he said. Makgoe said all districts in the
province improved in 2018, and two of his districts were in the top 10
nationally, while Gauteng scooped eight districts. The Fezile Dabi district in the
Free State is ranked number one in the country, and Makgoe said he wants to see
all districts in the province in the top 10 next year. - See our Matric Results
page.  Revision, staying active, working hard: Cream of 2018 matric crop share their insights Some of the 2018 National Senior Certificate (NSC) top achievers say that they remain anxious on how well they have done ahead of the results being announced at Midnight on Thursday. WATCH: SAPS escort pupils to matric farewell in Nyala Making an entrance is an extra bonus point when making a statement at a matric farewell. One couple in particular, turned heads when they rocked up in a police Nyala van escorted by police officers at their farewell in Newcastle over the weekend. Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Head boy and top achiever ready to 'get his future started' King David High School Linksfield's 2017 head boy, who earned seven distinctions in the IEB matric exams, has some advice for those entering their matric year. Here are the alternate avenues to explore if your matric results weren't ideal Here are the alternate avenues to explore of your matric results weren't ideal Matric pass rate should be at 100% - Wits professor Wits professor Marissa Rollnick says a matric pass rate of 100% is achievable. 'Consistency was key for me' - Rebecca Haines, top matric mathematics achiever Top matric mathematics achiever Rebecca Haines from Rustenburg High School For Girls in Cape Town says her excellent results came down to working consistently. Matric exams: How does upward mark adjustment work? Upward mark adjustments usually take place when exam papers are proven to be more difficult than previous years. 'I strategised; I had a timetable and I stuck to it' - top matric achiever Mapula Sebati Thousands of matrics throughout the country will know their individual results on Wednesday. However, the top achievers for the class of 2015 were celebrated on Tuesday after the official announcement by Minister of Education, Angie Motshekga. Top SA matric says his rare disease motivated him to study medicine this year After missing almost two terms of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker still managed to be the overall top achiever of 2015. WATCH: You have a second chance to ace matric Universities across the country are about to open up their doors. Although the national pass rate was 71. 5%, many students did not obtain the necessary results to get them into institutions of higher learning. 'The bigger plan is to become president,' says top matric performer Tumelo Mashigo, part of the class of 2017, hopes to one day be president.

The 18-year-old was the second best performing learner with special needs among the most recent matriculants and hopes to make the world a better place one day. WATCH: 5 tips to acing your matric exams Matric examination got underway on Monday across the country. Here are a few tips for A+ results.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.