Kyle Cowan An internal Bosasa memorandum. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Employees of African Global Operations (AGO), formerly known as Bosasa, have been instructed to "remain calm" and immediately inform a director of the company if they are contacted by any member of the state capture commission of inquiry. The Bosasa director would then inform the company's senior legal counsel. "If any staff member gets (sic) contacted by the state capture commission, please take the details of the caller (name, surname and contact details) and immediately pass the information to Mrs Jackie Leyds...for onward transmission to our senior counsel," the memo reads. A cellphone number for Leyds is also provided, which News24 has confirmed has been used by Leyds in the past. Not an instruction AGO spokesperson and director, Papa Leshabane, has denied that the content of the memo constitutes an instruction to staff to not speak with the commission. Leyds is a director at the company and it's understood he is partly responsible for the management of the various youth centres the business operates on behalf of the Department of Social Development. "As you are all aware, the company, its directors and some members of staff have been accused of all manner of wrongdoing by Mr Angelo Agrizzi before the state capture commission," the memo reads. Agrizzi, former Bosasa chief operations officer, took the stand at the commission last Wednesday and has since delivered damning testimony of how Bosasa allegedly operated what can be equated to a tender racket. READ: Agrizzi's 6thday of testimony before state capture inquiry Executives of the Krugersdorp-based company, including CEO Gavin Watson, have been named by Agrizzi as having paid cash bribes to various government officials and politicians in exchange for lucrative tenders, particularly in the Department of Correctional Services. The contracts included catering for prisoners and the installation of high-security fencing at prisons around the country. The value of contracts awarded to Bosasa between 2001 and 2014 run into billions. "The company and affected staff have been advised by senior counsel that it is inappropriate for the company to comment on these allegations at this stage. The company will accordingly not for the moment respond to these allegations at the appropriate time and in the appropriate forum," the memo reads. "In the interim, we urge all staff members to remain calm and continue going about your daily tasks in your usual, efficient manner," it concludes. Support Leshabane told News24 on Wednesday that the instruction was "by no means intended to stop anyone speaking to the commission if they so wish". "This shows from those who give you internal company information, they don't seek our permission to do so," he said. Instead, he explained, the company was doing "all we can to support everyone who needs legal assistance". "On Sunday, you asked if the executive was receiving questions from concerned staff, you asked how staff was holding up. At this time, we are doing all we can to support everyone who needs legal assistance," Leshabane said via text message. "Our co-operation with the commission is unwavering, however, I am wondering if one is falsely accused, are they not allowed to consult counsel?" he said.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Agrizzi details unfair advantage given to Bosasa to secure 'one of the biggest' tenders Former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi is on the stand for the fifth day at the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry - Agrizzi to implicate more officials Former Bosasa chief operating officer Angelo Agrizzi will be back on the witness stand for a fifth day and more officials are expected to be implicated in his testimony. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry: Agrizzi continues his testimony, who will be implicated? Angelo Agrizzi has revealed more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Agrizzi claims he packed R50 000 a month for Minister Mokonyane Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi told the Zondo Commission that the company catered for ANC rallies and paid for the ruling party's birthday cake. Agrizzi was testifying about the relationship between Bosasa and Cabinet minister Nomvula Mokonyana WATCH: Agrizzi, Watson paid regular visits to Mokonyane's house, along with R50 000 #StateCaptureInquiry | Angelo Agrizzi continues to reveal more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Bosasa and #StateCapture | Here's what you need to know... Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. Bosasa onthullings by Zondo-kommissie Besonderhede oor beweerde onwettige aktiwiteite by Bosasa het Donderdag uitgekom by die Zondo-Kommissie toe die voormalige bedryfshoof, Angleo Agrizzi getuig het. WATCH: Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson emerges as 'kingpin of bribes' Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson has emerged as the absolute kingpin in the Bosasa empire of bribes, intimidation and cold hard cash. WATCH: Former Bossasa COO unpacks the bribes Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi on Thursday detailed the money trail allegedly used for bribing state entities. WATCH | 'Every single contract was tainted with bribes' - Agrizzi testifies #StateCaptureInquiry The second day of testimony by former Bosasa top boss Angelo Agrizzi in the commission of inquiry into state capture continues. ANALYSIS | #StateCaptureInquiry: Unpacking Agrizzi's testimony Watch as News24 investigative journalist Kyle Cowen and journalist Jeanette Chabalala unpack former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi's revelations at the state capture commission. WATCH: Bosasa spent between 'R4m and R6m a month' in cash bribes - Agrizzi at #StateCaptureInquiry Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi continues to testify at state capture inquiry - Day 2 The second day of testimony by former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi at the commission of inquiry into state capture is set to be far more explosive and damning for the ruling ANC party and his former colleagues. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi testifies at state capture inquiry The Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture resumed on Wednesday with former Bosasa employee Angelo Agrizzi on the witness stand. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.