Pelane Phakgadi Ekurhuleni mayor Mzwandile Masina. (Frennie Shivambu, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Ekurhuleni municipality has received a clean audit for the 2017/2018 financial year and Mayor Mzwandile Masina has welcomed the Auditor-General's (AG) report. The City of Ekurhuleni's audit committee tabled the report at its first ordinary council meeting on Thursday. "The AG found an improvement in the overall outcome of performance reporting. The City received a clean audit on performance information and no audit findings were reported," the mayor's spokesperson, Phakamile Mbengashe, said. Mbengashe added that improvements were noted in the report. No wasteful expenditure "The City did not incur fruitless and wasteful and unauthorised expenditure in the 2017-18 financial year... and [there was] a decrease of R198m (42%) in irregular expenditure from R472.6m to R274.5m." "We have continued to display our commitment to good governance and accountability following the AG's 2016/2017 financial year audit," said Masina. Masina said his governance's ability to decrease irregular expenditure by 42% allowed for further service delivery. READ MORE: Ekurhuleni is the 'engine of economic growth' - Ramaphosa at launch of train plant "We will continue to cut irregular expenditure and maintain a zero-tolerance approach to fruitless, wasteful and unauthorised expenditure. Good governance allows the City to attract much-needed investment, which will allow us to grow economic activity in the City of Ekurhuleni," added Masina. The mayor noted concerns about a lack of improvement in the quality of annual financial statements submitted and poor document management processes in finance. "We are committed to implementing the AG's recommendations expeditiously. The City remains committed to transparency, accountability and clean governance," said Masina.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.