Sarah Evans Danica Meiring, who scored 10 distinctions in the 2018 IEB matric exams. (Photo: Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories When Danica Meiring was a Grade 4 pupil at Midstream College, she came eighth in her grade. Standing in the line of children at the school's prize-giving ceremony, with the children arranged according to their marks, she wondered why some of them were standing in front of her. "I was like, ooh, this is not a nice feeling," she said. Meiring never came eighth again. The following year, and every year after that until she matriculated in 2018, she was the dux scholar in her grade. - See our Matric Results page Revision, staying active, working hard: Cream of 2018 matric crop share their insights Some of the 2018 National Senior Certificate (NSC) top achievers say that they remain anxious on how well they have done ahead of the results being announced at Midnight on Thursday. This week, Meiring matriculated with ten distinctions, making her one of the highest achieving pupils who wrote the Independent Examination Board (IEB) matric exams in 2018. It was at that prize-giving in Grade 4 that she discovered that she had a drive to succeed. She surrounded herself with friends at school who also excelled academically, which meant "it wasn't cool not to do well". While Meiring immersed herself in school life, she would wake up before dawn sometimes to do laps around the track before the school day. Soon, achieving high marks wasn't enough for her, either. Her marks had to be the highest in the grade, or she wouldn't be satisfied. Support from teachers, self-motivation She also took on a host of extramural activities. By the time she reached matric, she was involved in athletics, dance, hockey, the school newspaper and even ran the school outreach programmes, making spreadsheets and managing volunteer schedules between classes, among other activities. To achieve her tenth distinction, she opted to write both the IEB and government papers for advanced programme mathematics. So what makes Meiring different from the other matric pupils? For one thing, Midstream provided a lot of support to its pupils, she said. The pupils were given extra tests to up their portfolio marks; access to extra papers and "lovely teachers" also helped. But while "you have to have a brain, of course", Meiring says it is not her intelligence that makes her more successful than her peers; it is her drive. "You have to be self-motivated," she said. Getting home at night from a long day and "finding out why your balance sheet isn't balancing is the last thing you want to do". But that's just want Meiring did. If waking up at 04:00 to prepare for the day was required, she would do that, too. "I would never leave a class without knowing what was happening. I'm very disciplined," she said. No time off But Meiring is no robot. The bubbly teenager describes herself as "goofy", and says confidence can make all the difference. "Lots of people think they can't do it. You have to believe in yourself. You have to put the hours in and trust the hours that you put in. It's more attainable than you think," she said. Being at the top comes with its own stresses. Competing with your peers is one thing, but when you are practically in a league of your own, trying to beat your own personal bests, the pressure can be intense. "Getting 90% wasn't cool if it wasn't the best mark in the class. Even 96% wasn't cool if it wasn't the best." Her parents were over the moon if she got 80% for a test, never pressurising her, but Meiring knew she had to work even harder. "You have to see it (matric) as a full-time job for the whole year. If I went out on weekends, it would be at night, after studying during the day. I don't think you can take the weekends off and expect those kinds of marks," she said. Exhausted after a gruelling year, Meiring thought about taking some time off after matric. But it wasn't long before she realised that rest wasn't really her thing. She bristles with excitement at the mention of her plans to study medicine. She's considering specialising in reconstructive plastic surgery one day, and not the cosmetic kind. "My dream is to work on one of those mercy ships. I really want to help people," she said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Beyonce announces second round of college scholarships Beyonce has followed her triumphant Coachella performance last weekend by announcing the expansion of her scholarship initiative to four of America's historically black colleges. Beyonce partners with Google bosses to expand scholarship programme Beyonce has added four more colleges to her scholarship programme thanks to a cash injection from Google bosses. Road minister seeks 83,150 Cr from budget FY19 Road minister budget has been cut by 2,000Cr. Chadwick Boseman to receive honorary doctorate from alma mater Black Panther star Chadwick Boseman is heading back to school in Washington, D.C. to be presented with an honorary doctorate. Bombay HC refuses stay on deadline for Kotak Bank No relief from Bombay HC for Kotak bank to cut promoter stake by December 31 deadline. Oz Minerals sees copper-gold results from Pantera 06 Dec 2018 - Oz Minerals (ASX:OZL) have received high-grade copper-gold results from the Pantera project in Brazil. Road rage epic fail! An irate driver gets his comeuppance when he approaches a driver he cut up at the previous junction. Bandhan Bank To Cut Promoter Stake By Share Sale To Hold Co Bandhan bank surges 8% intra-day. RBI grants 40 branch licenses to Bandhan Bank. Austar Gold update Rose of Denmark 29 Nov 2018 - Austar Gold (ASX:AUL) have released an operational update at its Rose of Denmark gold mine in Victoria where gold-bearing material has been successfully mined and processed. Avalanche Busters Barry Kennedy is in one of the most Avalanche prone spots on earth -the Canadian Rockies. Working with Avalanche Busters he'll be helping to neutralize the threat of about 1.5 million avalanches a yer! Canadian world juniors will play ‘fast hockey’: Coach Canada’s world junior hockey squad had its first skate Tuesday at the short selection camp. Coach Tim Hunter says he’s aiming for speed in every aspect of the game. House hockey fail! Man hits beer can with hockey puck. Prince William and Kate's hockey shootout The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge go head-to-head while learning about bandy hockey in Sweden. Hockey fans throw over 30,000 toy bears during goal celebration Fans of an US hockey team threw over 30,000 toy bears onto the ice rink during a goal celebration. The bears hit the ice during a Hershey Bears game at the Giant Center in Pennsylvania. The toy bears are collected for local charities. 16 Amazing Things Invented By Canadians Canada's not just about maple syrup and hockey. The 'human flying without wings' The man hoping to turn Flyboarding into a full-time job after finishing second in his first competition. The 'human flying without wings' The man hoping to turn Flyboarding into a full-time job after finishing second in his first competition. WATCH: Little Maths genius scores prestigious scholarship In September, 2018, News24 interviewed 10-year-old math genius, Sbahle Zwane.
One month later, the Zwane family received news that Sbahle had been granted a scholarship at the prestigious Curro Academy in Protea Glen, Soweto. WATCH. 'I strategised; I had a timetable and I stuck to it' - top matric achiever Mapula Sebati Thousands of matrics throughout the country will know their individual results on Wednesday. However, the top achievers for the class of 2015 were celebrated on Tuesday after the official announcement by Minister of Education, Angie Motshekga.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.