Sharlene Rood WATCH: OR Tambo baggage handler caught slinging suitcases, suspended The baggage handler caught on camera at the OR Tambo International Airport carelessly flinging suitcases from the carousel onto the floor,  has been suspended. Video footage of a Lanseria International Airport employee going the 'extra mile' at the baggage carousel, has gone viral. Watch.WATCH The OR Tambo International Airport baggage handler who was caught on camera carelessly flinging suitcases from the carousel onto the floor has been suspended. Video footage of the incident was widely circulated on social media. Samukelo Khambule, corporate affairs specialist at the airport, told News24 that they were aware of a video showing a baggage handler mishandling passengers' luggage. "We have engaged the ground handler’s company, BidAir Services, regarding its employee’s behaviour," Khambule said. BidAir Services had identified and suspended the employee with immediate effect, while they initiated disciplinary action. "There are many professional employees who work for various companies in the airport ecosystem," Khambule said. "It’s therefore disconcerting when an employee falls short of the standards of the service level agreement that we have with companies performing licensed activities within the airport."  WATCH: Lanseria baggage handler to be rewarded for doing a sterling job at the carousel Every single piece of luggage that rolls past Ephraim Sibeko on the carousel at Lanseria International Airport is carefully maneuvered to be right side up with the handle pointing outward. All you have to do, is step up and grab what's yours. 'That's hogwash!'- Pule Mabe on accusations of intimate relationship with former PA ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe, who is currently on leave from that role pending the outcome of the inquiry of sexual harassment claims, strongly denied claims that he and his former assistant had an intimate relationship of sorts in the past. WATCH: Masturbating Mr D driver dismissed after video goes viral Masturbating Mr D driver dismissed after video goes viral. From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg. WATCH: Suspects run for cover after heavy fire from security officers disrupts armed robbery Two Chinese nationals and their driver were robbed of R23 000 along the M2 near the Main Reef Road exit in Johannesburg on Tuesday. Charcoal challenge takes Facebook by storm posing the question: 'is it racist?' A bizarre new social media challenge that sees participants turning their heads black by inverting a bag of charcoal over their heads, has raised eyebrows online.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.