Correspondent (Photo: File, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Commuters can expect delays on the Gautrain line on Thursday because of cable theft, the company tweeted. "Due to cable theft, trains to OR Tambo will operate on a single track. "Expect your journey to be extended by approximately 20 minutes in the peak period (headway will be approximately 30 minutes instead of 10 minutes). "We will inform you once trains are operating according to schedule again," Gautrain said. Read: 'Train smash' for commuters as Gautrain strike set to continue Cable theft has caused delays in Gautrain schedules before, most recently in June and March last year. There was no indication when trains would be operating according to schedule again. Due to cable theft, trains to OR Tambo will operate on a single track. Expect your journey to be extended by approx 20 min in the peak period (headway will be approx 30 min instead of 10 min). We will inform you once trains are operating according to schedule again.   SA train collision leaves 600 injured A train collision in South Africa's capital Pretoria kills at least three and injures more than 600. WATCH: Emergency personnel working to free people trapped under collided trains At least three people have been confirmed dead, while scores of others have been left injured following a train collision at Mountain View station, Pretoria on
Tuesday morning. WATCH: Trains collide at Mountain View station in Pretoria One person has been confirmed dead, while scores of others have been left injured following a train collision at Mountain View station, Pretoria on Tuesday morning. WATCH: Train up in flames in Mayfair Two carriages of a passenger train caught fire at Mayfair Station, west of Johannesburg on Sunday. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. It's time to involve the entire security cluster - Blade Nzimande after latest Cape Town train fire Firefighters have arrived at Cape Town train station to battle yet another train-related blaze after thick, black smoke permeated the air above the station on Tuesday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.