Pelane Phakgadi #FeesMustFall activists participate in a student march to Parliament in Cape Town. (Brenton Geach/Gallo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Fees Must Fall activists will on Wednesday conclude
their "historic walk" to the Union Buildings after their failed visit
to convicted activist Kanya Cekeshe in Leeuwkop prison in Johannesburg on
Sunday. The group alleges that the security officials at
the correctional facility did not allow them to enter and visit Cekeshe,
claiming they were not ready for visitors like themselves, despite having made
prior arrangements. Led by activist Bonginkosi Khanyile, the group walked
from Isandlwana in KwaZulu-Natal. READ: Fees Must Fall activists to visit convicted comrade in
Pretoria en route to Union Buildings In August last year, Khanyile, himself facing jail
time for crimes committed during the 2016 fees protests, also marched to the
Union Buildings to ask for presidential pardons for those activists who had
been convicted, but was unsuccessful in that plea following his conviction. He will be sentenced in January. The "historic walkers" said that they
were expecting the "presidency to receive the memorandum they have
compiled during their 495km walk from KZN," read their statement. The group has also pleaded for support in
addressing "all issues facing and affecting the youth and country in
general".   This is Kanya’s second Christmas in prison. He is being punished for fighting for free education. Please sign this petition #FreeKanyaCekeshe https://t.co/mptlGOYiOs   Trump starts withdrawing U.S. forces from Syria President Donald Trump has begun withdrawing U.S. troops from Syria, declaring on Wednesday they have succeeded in their mission to defeat Islamic State and were no longer needed in the country. U.S. weighs complete withdrawal of troops in Syria The United States is considering a total withdrawal of U.S. forces from Syria as it nears the end of its campaign to retake all of the territory once held by Islamic State, U.S. officials told Reuters on Wednesday. 'Of course' Trump knew payments were wrong: Cohen U.S. President Donald Trump directed hush payments to two women during the 2016 presidential campaign and knew the actions were wrong, his former personal lawyer Michael Cohen said in a television interview that aired on Friday. Jonah Green has more. Pardon me? Whom has Trump set free so far? Trump just granted clemency to Alice Marie Johnson, who served at least two decades in prison. Celebrity Kim Kardashian lobbied for her release. Here is a list of Trump's pardons so far. Trump was unaware of Huawei arrest: officials President Donald Trump did not know about plans to arrest a top executive at Huawei, two U.S. officials said, in an apparent attempt to stop the incident from impeding crucial trade talks with Beijing. Cousin of jailed Sakharov Prize winner Oleg Sentsov speaks AFP speaks to the cousin of jailed Ukrainian film director Oleg Sentsov, winner of this year's Sakharov prize for human rights in October. Sentsov, who recently ended a hunger strike, is serving a 20-year sentence in a prison in the Russian Arctic. Trump tells troops IS 'not so dominant anymore' U.S. President Donald Trump, on a surprise visit to U.S. troops in Iraq, says Islamic State is "not so dominant anymore." Nathan Frandino has more. White House steps back from shutdown threat The White House said on Tuesday it has found a way to build President Donald Trump’s promised border wall without new funding from Congress, but the plan is hitting a wall of its own with Democrats rejecting it. Colette Luke has more. Obamacare ruling thrusts health debate into spotlight Republicans and Democrats found themselves forced to once again argue the merits and deficiencies of the 2010 Affordable Care Act after a U.S. federal judge ruled that Obamacare was unconstitutional. US government shuts down over border wall funding Donald Trump gives a message to the Democrats after a partial US government shutdown takes effect after lawmakers failed to meet the President's demands for five billion dollars to start erecting his Mexican border wall. Trump makes surprise visit to Iraq U.S. President Donald Trump made a surprise visit to Iraq on Wednesday, meeting with troops a day after Christmas. Trump's top choice for chief of staff not taking job Nick Ayers, Donald Trump’s top choice to be his next chief of staff, is no longer in the running and the U.S. president is now considering at least two other candidates, sources familiar with the matter said on Sunday, the latest sign of a chaotic Wh Hitting a wall: Shutdown looms over border funding U.S. President Donald Trump and Congressional Democrats appeared no closer to reaching a government budget deal by December 21 - with Trump still insisting Congress include $5 billion for a border wall between the U.S. and Mexico. Mulroney fights tears in tribute to Bush Former prime minister Brian Mulroney paid tribute to his close friend, former U.S. president George H.W. Bush. Mulroney delivered one of four eulogies during the state funeral at Washington's National Cathedral. Russia to make banned missiles if U.S. exits treaty Russia will develop missiles now banned under the Intermediate-range Nuclear Forces treaty if the United States exits the arms control pact and starts making such weapons, President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday. Matthew Larotonda reports Trump speaks out about border deaths U.S. President Donald Trump breaks his silence on the death of two migrant children. WATCH: 127 inmates receive qualifications at inspirational graduation ceremony The Department of Correctional Services handed out 127 qualifications, including one master's degree, to graduating offenders on Friday. Watch the video above. White House considers banning Huawei and ZTE President Donald Trump is considering an executive order in the new year to declare a national emergency that would bar U.S. companies from using telecommunications equipment made by China's Huawei and ZTE, three sources familiar with the situation told Reuters. Trump pardons D'Souza, says Stewart may be next President Donald Trump on Thursday granted a pardon to conservative commentator Dinesh D’Souza, who pleaded guilty in 2014 to U.S. campaign finance law violations, and said he was considering pardoning lifestyle maven Martha Stewart. Trump "totally prepared" for a shutdown U.S. President Donald Trump conceded on Friday there was a good chance the Senate would not approve his demand for $5 billion toward funding his border wall project and that there probably would be a government shutdown beginning at midnight. U.S. envoy in fight against ISIS resigns Brett McGurk, U.S. special presidential envoy for the global coalition to defeat Islamic State, submitted his resignation effective Dec. 31 to Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Friday, a State Department official said. Trump upends plan to avert federal shutdown U.S. President Donald Trump on Thursday told Republican congressional leaders he will not sign a government funding bill because it fails to include enough funding for border security, raising the odds that parts of the federal government could shut down on Saturday morning. Kim Kardashian teaming with Ivanka Trump to win grandmother pardon Kim Kardashian is reportedly in talks with America's first daughter Ivanka Trump to free a grandmother facing life in prison. Kim has previously highlighted the case of 62-year-old Alice Marie Johnson, who was jailed for life without parole in 199... Seven jailed for using drones to airlift drugs into prisons Seven members of a gang which used drones to airlift GBP500,000 worth of drugs into prisons have been given jail terms ranging from three to 10 years. WATCH: Leeuwkop prison surprise raid: Dagga, shanks and cellphones found On Thursday morning the Department of Correctional Services executed a surprise raid at Leeuwkop prison in Johannesburg, catching inmates off guard and revealing their illicit possessions. Harvey Weinstein could face lifelong jail sentence Harvey Weinstein could face life in prison for the latest sexual misconduct charges that have been brought against him. VIDEO: Activists march 80kms from Marikana to Union Buildings demanding compensation for widows Two groups marched to the Union Buildings in Pretoria on Wednesday. The groups requested President Cyril Ramaphosa receive their memoranda who failed to appear. WATCH. Proposed changes to prisons aim to help rehabilitation: Goodale Ralph Goodale says legislation he tabled Tuesday aims to transform how inmates are separated from the general prison population. The public safety minister says the proposal maintains inmates’ access to rehabilitative programs. Crown calls life sentence for Halifax plot 'appropriate' Lindsay Souvannarath, who pleaded guilty to planning to go on a shooting rampage at a Halifax mall, has been sentenced to life in prison. Crown lawyer Shauna MacDonald says the foiled plot made the risk of that type of offense "real" for Nova Scot... Disgraced publicict Max Clifford dies in hospital after being taken ill in jail Disgraced former celebrity publicist Max Clifford has died, the Ministry of Justice said.
The 74-year-old was said to be "in a bad way" after collapsing twice at Littlehey Prison in Cambridgeshire, where he was serving an eight-year jail sentence. Richard Ratcliffe delivers letter to Iranian embassy The husband of a British citizen jailed in Iran has delivered letters of support for his wife to the Iranian embassy in London.

Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, a British-Iranian dual citizen, is serving a five-year prison sentence. Man jailed over hitting pensioners with his mobility scooter Man gets two-year jail sentence for ramming pensioners with mobility scooter Palestinian child prisoners in Israel Ahed Tamimi was released from the prison. But there are still nearly 300 Palestinian children in Israeli prisons. We explain how they end up there. Prisoners share videos of drug use in UK jails Facebook and the Ministry of Justice have been urged to take action after inmates used social media to identify prison officers and post videos of violent threats, bullying and drug use.

Footage on one Instagram account shows a bare-chested priso... Why has Tommy Robinson been released from prison? Three leading judges quashed a finding made against the former English Defence League leader Tommy Robinson at Leeds Crown Court in May, and granted him conditional bail from a 13-month jail sentence pending new proceedings at the Old Bailey. Tommy Robinson walks free after court challenge but could still face jail Former English Defence League leader Tommy Robinson has been released from prison but could still face jail over an allegation that he committed contempt of court by filming people in a criminal trial and broadcasting footage on social media.

T... 'Extremely dangerous' motorist banned for two years A motorist who reached speeds of 75mph in a 30mph zone after failing to stop for police has been banned from driving for two years.

Police said Callum Molloy, 24, also received a 20-month suspended jail sentence. Animal ban for woman who kept cats and dogs in 'disgusting' conditions A woman has been banned from owning animals for life after keeping scores of cats and dogs in "filthy" pens at her home. Inside a jail with 5,500 inmates A prisoner at Manila City Jail, one of the world's most overcrowded ones, describes what life is like there. Earthquake jail-break inmate hands himself in A prisoner has returned to finish his sentence after escaping from a prison in Palu. Egyptian opposition since the 2013 coup Why have so many people become political prisoners in Egypt? With more than 60,000 people incarcerated under laws restricting political opposition, are voices of dissent being wiped out under President Sisi? Suspect charged with murder of golfer Celia Barquin A homeless man charged with killing a top amateur golfer from Spain at a course in central Iowa ordered jailed on Tuesday (18 September) on a $5 million USD cash-only bond. Dem aims to get citizenship question pulled from census The likely incoming Democratic chairman of the congressional panel overseeing the U.S. census said on Tuesday he aims to pressure the Trump administration into removing a question about citizenship from the 2020 census questionnaire. Andy Sullivan ha Rakhmat Akilov gets life sentence in Sweden truck attack case Failed Uzbek asylum seeker, Rakhmat Akilov, jailed for life in Sweden for killing five people when he slammed a stolen truck into shoppers on a busy street in Stockholm in April 2017. Trump pushes Mattis out early U.S. President Donald Trump on Sunday said he was replacing Defense Secretary Jim Mattis two months earlier than had been expected, a move officials said was driven by Trump's anger at Mattis' resignation letter and its rebuke of his foreign policy. Michael Cohen: Donald Trump's former lawyer jailed for three years President Donald Trump's former lawyer has been sentenced to three years in prison.

A New York judge said that Michael Cohen deserved a harsh punishment for crimes including tax evasion, lying to Congress and arranging illegal payments to silence... Feds probing Trump inauguration spending - WSJ Federal prosecutors are investigating whether U.S. President Donald Trump's inaugural committee misspent some of the funds it raised, the Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday, citing people familiar with the matter. Gavino Garay has more.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.