Kaveel Singh Crawford La Lucia pupil Asad Ameer emerged as top achiever in his school. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A top achieving KwaZulu-Natal matriculant has advised the class of 2019 to stay disciplined, but also to make time for relaxation. - Sign up to receive your matric results and you could win R10 000! Seventeen-year-old Crawford College La Lucia pupil Asad Ameer said he was delighted after being selected as "outstanding". "It is a real privilege to do this well. I am elated, because the matric year plays a big role in your future career." He managed nine distinctions, with a 94% average, to emerge as top achiever in his school. The teenager, who hopes to study medicine at the University of Cape Town said his greatest asset was the support of his parents. "They have been so incredible. If I ever needed anything, they would jump to my aid." Bigger picture He said that "keeping an eye on the bigger picture" helped him maintain focus. "I was very goal orientated and knew the importance of staying level headed during the year." - See our Matric Results page. Ameer said he had maintained a fairly relaxed schedule for his studies. "I would get a nice early start in the mornings. I also made time for relaxation. A relaxed mind is key. Tried to prioritise school work always. Social gatherings were kept at the minimum." He advised 2019's matriculants to prioritise. "Everyone has their own unique social aspect of life. I didn't socialise that much and it worked for me. I would say studies come first." Meditation and prayer Ameer said what calmed him the most was prayer. "I always believe in seeking the guidance of the creator. Meditation aspect, associated with prayer, also helped maintain calm. I also professionally go-cart. It really helped me take out frustration and stress." He urged future matriculants to design a study pattern. "It is something that will help achieve their full potential. Everyone unique in the way they work. Don't listen to what people say you should do. It may help them, but not you." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: SAPS escort pupils to matric farewell in Nyala Making an entrance is an extra bonus point when making a statement at a matric farewell. One couple in particular, turned heads when they rocked up in a police Nyala van escorted by police officers at their farewell in Newcastle over the weekend. Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Head boy and top achiever ready to 'get his future started' King David High School Linksfield's 2017 head boy, who earned seven distinctions in the IEB matric exams, has some advice for those entering their matric year. Here are the alternate avenues to explore if your matric results weren't ideal Here are the alternate avenues to explore of your matric results weren't ideal Matric pass rate should be at 100% - Wits professor Wits professor Marissa Rollnick says a matric pass rate of 100% is achievable. 'Consistency was key for me' - Rebecca Haines, top matric mathematics achiever Top matric mathematics achiever Rebecca Haines from Rustenburg High School For Girls in Cape Town says her excellent results came down to working consistently. Matric exams: How does upward mark adjustment work? Upward mark adjustments usually take place when exam papers are proven to be more difficult than previous years. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. 'I strategised; I had a timetable and I stuck to it' - top matric achiever Mapula Sebati Thousands of matrics throughout the country will know their individual results on Wednesday. However, the top achievers for the class of 2015 were celebrated on Tuesday after the official announcement by Minister of Education, Angie Motshekga. Top SA matric says his rare disease motivated him to study medicine this year After missing almost two terms of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker still managed to be the overall top achiever of 2015. WATCH: You have a second chance to ace matric Universities across the country are about to open up their doors. Although the national pass rate was 71. 5%, many students did not obtain the necessary results to get them into institutions of higher learning. 'The bigger plan is to become president,' says top matric performer Tumelo Mashigo, part of the class of 2017, hopes to one day be president.

The 18-year-old was the second best performing learner with special needs among the most recent matriculants and hopes to make the world a better place one day. WATCH: 5 tips to acing your matric exams Matric examination got underway on Monday across the country. Here are a few tips for A+ results.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.