Ntwaagae Seleka WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. Tensions have heightened in Schweizer-Reneke in the North West after members of the community used a mini-bus taxi to block the entrance to the Schweizer-Reneke Laerskool. The group said they had decided to block the gate because they had been denied access to the school where North West education MEC Sello Lehari is expected to hold a media briefing later on Wednesday. Speaking on behalf of the group, Schweizer-Reneke resident Thami Moremi said they wanted to be addressed by the MEC. "We want to be part of the press conference. Why is the media only allowed [and not us]? Whites here think they own this school. WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral. "Why must we be denied access into the school? These security guards are provoking us. Some black parents are waiting outside because they are denied access to fetch their kids," said Moremi. He threatened that if they continue to be denied entry into the school the group would enter the school by force. Last week a photograph of black and white Grade R pupils seated separately went viral on social media, sparking an outrage on social media. Teacher Elana Barkhuizen, who took the picture, was suspended after the image emerged. Another teacher who allegedly separated the children remains at the school. Black children being 'intimidated' Barkhuizen has vowed to clear her name following the suspension. She is heading to court with the assistance of trade union Solidarity. The MEC is expected to give feedback following the department's investigation into the controversy. Young Communist League (YCL) member in the area Pule Ramabodu said the league wants the school to be shut down to allow investigations to go ahead without hindrance from teachers. "We also want investigators to tackle transformation and rampant racism in this school. "We always see security guards roaming the street armed with guns. "Guns are dangerous weapons and they symbolise violence and they are declaring war. Those guards are intimidating black children in the school." He said the YCL was not happy with Barkhuizen's suspension. Ramabodu said Lehari should have instead suspended the principal and the teacher who separated children. "The department of education in the province is failing us. We don't have hope in our basic education here in North West. Things are getting bad by the day under Lehari's watch," he said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Fender bender escalates into physical altercation between motorist North West police are urging the public to avoid taking the law into their own hands, after two motorists were involved in a physical altercation following a collision at a petrol station. WATCH: Anti-racism protest shuts down Bronkhorstspruit During a protest against racism in Bronkhorstspruit on Tuesday, where the entire central business district of the small town was shut down, the ANC Youth League in Tshwane have made a call expropriate land belonging to racist farmers. Was Mahatma Gandhi racist? Mahatma Gandhi is hailed as a hero of the Indian independence struggle and the father of non-violent resistance to oppression. But with the allegations of racism towards Africans, is his legacy under threat?
#India #Gandhi People react to anti-migrant attack in Germany "When a white man does it, he is suspected of having a mental illness problem, when a Muslim does, he is a terrorist."

Four people were wounded after a 50-year-old German man rammed his car into a group of people in a 'racist attack' in the city ... WATCH: Julius Malema on changing the constitution regarding land expropriation On 13 November in parliament, during the first day of the Joint Constitutional Review Committee deliberating a draft report on the possible review of Section 25 of the Constitution to allow expropriation of land without compensation. WATCH: 'Sies Sasol!' - workers march against affirmative action scheme Members of trade union Solidarity marched to the Johannesburg Stock Exchange on Thursday to protest against Sasol's affirmative action scheme, Khanyisa.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.