Correspondent The National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) is monitoring the beaches around Jeffreys Bay after a dolphin that had beached itself was released about 3km off-shore near Kabeljous Beach on Thursday. The NSRI was called to the scene after efforts by the members of the public to refloat the 2.5m dolphin had been unsuccessful. "NSRI Jeffreys Bay crew, trained to deal with marine animal strandings, set up a system to keep the dolphin wet and to manage crowd control, and [were] assisted by a Kouga Municipal lifeguard and... members of the public who we selected and who volunteered to assist," NSRI Jeffreys Bay station commander Rieghard Janse van Rensburg said in a statement. A marine biologist from Bayworld and a veterinarian from Cape Cross also responded. WATCH: Beached whale was 'suffering, in process of dying' "We may never know why the animal was stranded," Lieze Swart of the Department of Environmental Affairs (Oceans and Coasts) told News24, after an 11m sub-adult Humpback whale beached at Yzerfontein earlier this week. The NSRI decided to activate its sea rescue craft, after it was determined that the dolphin appeared to be healthy. "Using a specialised stretcher, the dolphin was loaded onto our sea rescue craft and transported 3km off-shore and released," Janse van Rensburg said. "We are confident that the dolphin will survive, although the beaches will be monitored over the next few days," he said. Thank you to @nsri station 37!! Working hard this morning to save a beached dolphin on Kabeljous Beach?? pic.twitter.com/oSLM21nXaJ A striped dolphin was successfully released at Kabeljous Beach in J'Bay on Thursday by @NSRI. The team was assisted by a vet, marine docter and lifeguards :-) pic.twitter.com/gUNcWVdy2u  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Japan's abandoned dolphin sparks outcry The plight of a lonely dolphin and dozens of penguins that have been abandoned in a derelict aquarium in Japan since the start of the year spark protests in Tokyo. Stunning aerial footage of dolphins feeding off the coast of the Isle of Man A photographer has captured stunning aerial footage of a pod of approximately 30-50 dolphins feeding between Port Erin and the Calf of Man on the south coast of the Isle of Man. Bridge to China threatens Hong Kong's pink dolphin Hong Kong’s rare pale pink dolphins are battling for survival as building work on a 19-mile bridge linking the Asian financial hub with China disrupts the communication and feeding activities of the highly sociable animals, marine experts say. Amazing Moment Woman Saves Baby Dolphin This is the amazing moment a woman rescues a baby dolphin stranded on a beach. Dolphins predict Russia win over Croatia in World Cup Dolphins predict a 3-1 Russia victory over Croatia at this weekend's World Cup game. Visit Portugal''s Alentejo region Deserted beaches, dolphin-watching boat trips, medieval towns and a flourishing wine production all combine to make the Alentejo Region one of Portugal's most attractive travel destinations. A trip to Portugal's Alentejo region Deserted beaches, dolphin-watching boat trips, medieval towns and a flourishing wine production all combine to make the Alentejo Region one of Portugal's most attractive travel destinations. Australia's Deadliest Sea Creatures Australia's oceans are home to many deadly creatures, from tiny jellyfish to huge great white sharks. Greg Grainger interviews survivors and gets expert advice on how to survive in a deadly situation. Dad surprises daughters as dolphin mascot Sgt Anthony Pasco had not seen his teenage twins in months as he is based away from home. Sailing the Humpback Highway Sail along the east coast of Australia with a passionate crew of whale enthusiasts, as the whales adopt their boat, The Goodewind, as a welcome companion whilst they migrate north to the Great Barrier Reef.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.