Sharlene Rood WATCH: Limpopo diesel thief drives off without paying R3 179 bill A white Ford Ranger bakkie was caught on CCTV camera making off with fuel worth R3 179, without paying a cent. The driver of a white Ford Ranger bakkie was caught on CCTV making off with fuel worth R3 179 - without paying a cent. The Global Emergency RAPID Response & Crime Prevention Team GCF forum posted video footage of the incident, which occurred at the Tzaneen Engen, on social media. The alleged theft happened at roughly 20:30 on January 10, Limpopo police spokesperson Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe told News24. "Police in Tzaneen opened a case of theft," he said. Petrol station manager Suhel Mohammed told News24 that the driver of the bakkie asked the attendant to fill five 25-litre cans with diesel. The cans were on the back of the bakkie. The man then asked the attendant to fill up the bakkie. "He (the attendant) asked the guy if he'd be paying with cash or card. He said card. As the attendant grabbed the Speedpoint [card device], the guys drove off with the diesel," Mohammed said. "Obviously, it is frustrating to go through this. We're not happy about it because it's a loss for the company." He said they would try and recover the amount and would launch an internal investigation. Ngoepe added that no arrests were made and investigations were continuing. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. WATCH: Hijackers caught by Tracker officer on Christmas Day maybe connected to other crimes Police have arrested several suspects in connection to a botch hijacking that happened in Durban on Christmas Eve. WATCH: Fender bender escalates into physical altercation between motorist North West police are urging the public to avoid taking the law into their own hands, after two motorists were involved in a physical altercation following a collision at a petrol station. WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. WATCH: Zimbabweans queue kilometres for petrol Zimbabweans are having to queue for hours on end simply to get petrol for their vehicles, as the country's economic and political crisis worsens. WATCH: Flames engulf Kempton Park bus fleet Quick-acting firefighters in the east of Johannesburg were able to extinguish a blaze that engulfed a fleet of parked vehicles, late last week.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.