Jenna Etheridge WATCH: Grade 1 pupil gets ready for big school Starting Grade 1 is a big step for little ones. For Luca (6), getting ready for school took quite some time on Wednesday morning, but he soon got into the swing of things. Luca and his mom on his first day of school (Jenna Etheridge, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Starting Grade 1 is a big step for little ones. It's the beginning of a 12-year schooling journey which involves a lot of work, concentration and sitting. For Luca Moses-Kruger, 6, getting ready for school took quite some time on Wednesday morning, but he soon got into the swing of things. LIVE: 'It's a beautiful day when we start school' - Makhura addresses parents, pupils on first day When asked what was happening, he shyly said: "Grade 1 Day". He ate his bowl of wheat cereal at leisure, still in his pyjamas, while his mother Estrelita encouraged him to finish and change into his school uniform. Thinking back to orientation day, he said a teacher called out his name. But he soon realised it was another boy with the same name and a different surname. His mother listened as she packed sandwiches and fruit in his new blue and white lunchbox. "I am only cutting the crusts off because it's your first day of school," she said with a raised eyebrow. This was the final preparation for "big school" after hours were spent labelling every piece of stationery. Mom increasingly looked at the clock on the kitchen wall but Luca was still on holiday time. Holding a Spiderman DVD in one hand, he bounced around and proudly showed off all his stationery for big school. He also demonstrated his numerical skills by counting 10 glue sticks. Eventually, he changed into his school shirt, shorts and takkies. His mother lugged a backpack the same size as him to the car. He was at a loss for words when asked if he was excited for the day. After a drive through heavy Bellville traffic, his mom and aunt parked at his school and rushed him along through the crowd of parents and pupils. Thankfully, there were some familiar faces from his previous year in Grade R. It took 10 minutes to find the right classroom but he soon walked up the stairs and into his new place of learning - a colourful room with lots of posters, art supplies and children already sitting and drawing. There were no tears as he kissed his mom goodbye, and his mom managed to hold it together too. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.