Riaan Grobler Francis and André Hanekom (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The autopsy report on the death of André Hanekom – the South African man who died mysteriously while in custody in Mozambique last week – has been completed. But, in a surprise move, it was announced that the results would not be disclosed, not even to Hanekom's family. Mozambican newspaper O País reported on Tuesday that the provincial hospital in Pemba, where Hanekom died on Wednesday last week, had received the results of the autopsy of Hanekom, but said it could not reveal the report, not even to the family. It advised the media to address the provincial attorney's office – the only entity reportedly authorised to disclose the required information. Believed to have been poisoned Hanekom died in police custody ahead of his court appearance on charges of terrorism. His family earlier told News24 they believe he had been poisoned. Hanekom had been arrested in August last year and shot with an AK-47 assault rifle in what initially appeared to be a kidnapping. He had been in and out of hospital since then and was kept in custody, despite two court orders ordering his release.  SociedadeHospital Provincial de Pemba já tem resultado da autópsia de Andrew Hannekon#autopsia #andrewhannekon #ataques #opaisonline #opais #gruposoicohttps://t.co/099LrRQjg9 pic.twitter.com/4qHccUWa4f  On Tuesday, News24 reported that Hanekom's wife, Francis, had received threats that he would be killed since the beginning of January. Francis sent screengrabs of threats received in her Facebook inbox to News24 on Monday. Francis initially received a comment on Facebook from one "Moz High", saying: "You may want to check your messages early, your husband's life depends on it." 'You'll get him in a body bag' She then received a message in her inbox saying: "So we know your very public display of this has left some very important people sour. You will soon get your husband in a body bag if you don't do the following." The person then asks for 10 Bitcoin (approximately R463 000), threatening to kill Hanekom if this demand is not met. "No matter where you go or what you do, we will kill him…" The family has been trying in vain to have Hanekom's remains brought to South Africa for an independent autopsy. "We suspect he was poisoned," Hanekom's daughter Amanda told News24 earlier. "We need to confirm this by having blood tests done, but we first need to recover his remains." Amanda said the family feared Mozambique authorities would incinerate Hanekom's body to "get rid of evidence". International Relations and Cooperation Minister Lindiwe Sisulu directed High Commissioner to Mozambique Mandisi Mpahlwa to engage with authorities there to establish the cause of death, News24 reported last week. Sisulu requested a feedback report, Department of International Relations and Cooperation (Dirco) spokesperson Ndivhuwo Mabaya said. 'We are as concerned as the family' - Dirco Mabaya told News24 that Dirco would receive a report by the high commissioner in Mozambique on Tuesday. "He said he would send [a report] on the preliminary investigation today (Tuesday)." Mabaya said the high commissioner and law enforcement authorities in Mozambique were busy with their investigations into Hanekom's death. "When all of that is completed, we will have a complete report of what happened to Mr Hanekom. "We are as concerned as the family," Mabaya said. "But as government, we cannot speculate." Suspected jihadist operative News24 previously reported that Hanekom and two Tanzanians had been arrested on December 31, and were named by Mozambican authorities as allegedly being part of a jihadist group operating in the region. According to AFP, the group faced charges including murder and crimes against the state. Allegedly, Hanekom had been responsible for the logistics of the group and was shot while trying to resist arrest in August. Weapons were reportedly found at his home. Francis has repeatedly denied the allegations.  Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. WATCH: Protesters to Ramaphosa: Give us the money you give to the buffalo The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) and other trade unions took to the streets in Cape Town on Thursday to protest against police brutality and low wages. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. Mozambican refugees prepare to head home after three years Thousands of Mozambican refugees who fled to Malawi in a bid to escape conflict in their homeland head home after an easing of tensions between government and its opposition. WATCH: Cope's Lekota, Steve Hofmeyr unite against 'fascist formation' BLF Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota has labelled the BLF a fascist formation, insisting that its leader, Andile Mngxitama, be imprisoned and rehabilitated for his calls at the weekend for the killing of white people in South Africa. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH: Mnangagwa and and his gangster must leave Zimbabwe alone - Zimbabweans A number of protesters marched to the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria on Wednesday in solidarity with their families who've been affected by the total shutdown in Zimbabwe. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.