Jenni Evans  Approximately 70 learners will be taught in this classroom, which was originally a school hall. (Ashraf Hendricks, GroundUp)  Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The desperate pleas for help from a Cape Town school, which has around 70 pupils in one class, may be answered soon after the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) put in an urgent request for extra staff. "We met the department this morning at the district office, with senior officials," said Aleem Abrahams, principal of Bergville Primary School in Bishop Lavis. "I am very thankful to the department for responding so positively," said Abrahams. On the first day of school on Wednesday, a group of parents and teachers picketed outside the school, mainly to complain that there was only one teacher for 72 Grade 4 pupils. They handed over a memorandum of demands, which also asked that urgent attention be given to safety at the school because it tried to cope with gangsterism in its surrounds, and concerns over the mental well-being of staff and pupils, given the difficult circumstances that they worked in. READ: 70 pupils to 1 teacher – Community group pickets over packed classes Protesters felt that schools in wealthier areas would not have to struggle the way that they did to secure enough teachers. WCED spokesperson Bronagh Hammond said the department's district office applied for another teacher post for the school and they were confident that it would be approved. "The district has supported their application, which was submitted yesterday, for an additional assistant post as their learner numbers have now climbed over 400," she said. They don't know when the new teacher will arrive, but Abrahams said it meant they would be able to put the pupils back into two classrooms instead of keeping them in the school hall. On Wednesday, he said that trying to teach in a school hall was near impossible. He likened it to little more than controlling a crowd. Abrahams was so excited that they were already starting to get two adjoining classes ready to move the pupils there. "We will work overtime if we have to," he said. Extra teachers in reserve Hammond explained that the department kept extra teachers in reserve at the beginning of the year because they were never absolutely sure how many pupils would arrive at each school on the first day. Some parents register their children at more than one school. In the next few days, a form will go out to parents so that a final count can be made and they can decide which schools need the extra teachers. There is also another rush expected at the end of January because some parents and carers have to wait until payday to cover travel costs home and get the children back in school. Next week they will meet again with the school to discuss the safety concerns and on Wednesday, went through the psychological support that was available through the school's wellness programme. Employee wellness service In the meantime, teachers are urged to make use of the department's employee wellness service on 0800 111 011. For the 2017/18 financial year, 798 people used the service and stress topped the list of reasons to contact them, followed by personal relationship problems, work relations and performance management issues, and trauma. Group trauma debriefing sessions took place at schools across the province. Incidents that led to group trauma debriefing sessions were: loss of pupils; loss of teachers; hijacking; stabbing; violence; armed robbery and gang violence. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. WATCH: Cape pupil awarded for matriculating after surviving deadly fire Lance Minnies came close to losing his life in a deadly 2016 fire and almost gave up on his studies when he recovered. But it was the hope for a better future and the support of caring people at his school that pulled him through. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. WATCH: Grade 1 pupil gets ready for big school Starting Grade 1 is a big step for little ones. For Luca (6), getting ready for school took quite some time on Wednesday morning, but he soon got into the swing of things. WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg. WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg. WATCH: This 30-year-old family business is a school hotspot for Joburg families Gauteng schools open on Wednesday and parents are on the hunt for affordable school uniforms. Bored, stressed, US workers hit by shutdown head back to school More than a hundred American federal employees affected by the partial government shutdown attend workshops at American University. The classes include learning how to start a podcast, deal with change, brand oneself, and are for many a way to kee... WATCH: This father says outsourcing at Eskom is hurting his kids' future When Tshepang's* first child was born, he dropped out of school to seek work. He has worked as a contractor at various state entities. His current contract sees his salary filtered through two labour broking companies before it reaches him. 20 children injured in Chinese school attack A 49-year-old man injured 20 children with a hammer Tuesday inside a primary school in China's capital, the Xicheng district government said on its social media account. Three of the children have serious but non-life-threatening injuries. Attacker wounds 20 children at Beijing school Workers from Beijing's Criminal Investigation Department leave an elementary school after twenty children were wounded in an attack with three suffering serious injuries. Case For MPC To Cut Rates Inflation is at an all-time low, may call for a marginal decrease in rates says Deepak Parekh, Chairman, HDFC. Parents sue over district’s policy to arm teachers Parents filed a lawsuit to block a Pennsylvania school district from allowing teachers to carry guns in school, the latest in a debate playing out in many states over whether it's wise to arm educators to protect students from mass shooters. Investment Advice for NRIs There are a few limitations for NRI investments, but Mutual fund is the best route for NRIs in India due to it being a growing economy which would give good returns said Poonam Rungta of L J Business School. Bus convoy paraded in Ga. to deter traffickers 72 school buses drove by Mercedes Benz Stadium on Wednesday to represent the thousands of young victims being trafficked in Georgia. Women encouraged to take up stunt work training Women encouraged to try movie stunt work training at Essex training school Turkey's Maarif Foundation hosts first graduation ceremony in Afghanistan In Afganistan, where 3.5 million children are out of school, these high school students from an Afghan-Turkish school are celebrating their graduation. Kids in Iraq camps dream big, but can't enroll in school Maareb has big dreams, but she may never get to realise them. Every day, when her friends attend class in the Iraqi displacement camp they call home, she stays behind. Slopes in the French Alps open in time for Christmas holidays It may have come a bit late this year but snowfall in the French Alps means the slopes at ski resorts are open in time for the start of school vacation. Parkland victim's father paints border wall against gun violence Venezuelan artist Manuel Oliver, whose 17-year-old son Joaquin Oliver was killed during the Parkland school shooting, paints a mural on the US-Mexico border fence in Tijuana, to raise awareness on the gun violence problem in the United States. TRAI mandates single price regime TRAI's new framework is a positive as it will benefit customers, says Punit Mishra of ZEEL Long despised, tattoos emerge from shadows in Tunisia Once widespread in rural Tunisia, tattoos have long been considered vulgar and associated with people who are poorly educated or who have gone off the rails. But now they are emerging from the shadows as young people get inked and take up courses ... New assault charges laid in St. Michael’s investigation Police laid assault charges against five teens on Wednesday in relation to two incidents at St. Michael's private school in Toronto. Four of the five teens were previously charged in a separate incident. Syrian refugee student attacked in a US school "You're lucky you're from another language because I will crush you b*tch."

A 15-year-old Syrian refugee in the US was attacked by another student in a school bathroom.

#US #refugee #attack School pathologist loses her job for refusing to sign a pro-Israel oath Bahia Amawi, an American citizen of Palestinian descent, lost her job in a Texas school because she refused to sign a pro-Israel oath. She is now filing a lawsuit in the Federal District Court in Austin. #US, #boycott, #Israel Prince Charles visits primary school for Christmas play Prince Charles visits Tetbury primary school Combat in the classroom A surge of patriotism in Poland has resulted in increased demand for military classes in high schools. The BBC joined one student, Doris for field training and combat lessons. Matrieks: Drieling hoop op 22 onderskeidings Katherine, Alex en Georgie Coetzer (19) is 'n drieling van St. Mary's School Waverley in Johannesburg. Hulle is al drie toppresteerders van hul skool en tussen die sussies verwag hulle ten minste 22 onderskeidings. Video: Andrea Küsel Meet the teenager studying combat at school A surge of patriotism in Poland has resulted in increased demand for military classes in high schools. The BBC joined one student, Doris for field training and combat lessons. November WPI at 4.64% Manufacturing inflation at 4.21% vs 4.49% MoM. Primary articles inflation at 0.88% vs 1.79% MoM. Food inflation at -1.96% vs 0.64% MoM. Fuel price inflation at 16.2% vs 18.4% MoM. In Pakistan public education suffocates under surging population At the Tanjai Cheena school in northwest Pakistan students squeeze into makeshift classrooms where plastic tarps serve as walls and electricity is sparse, as a surging population overstretches the country's fragile education system. High school and university students protest in Paris Several hundred high school students are joined by university students at the Place Saint Michel in Paris to protest education reforms, including changes to crucial end-of-high school exams and access to higher education. WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. Aussie school kids lead mass coal mine protests Australian school children lead thousands of demonstrators nationwide calling for a halt on plans for Indian mining firm Adani to construct a controversial coal mine in the country's northeast. Christmas present from 1971 finally opened Adrian Pearce left a gift from his high school girlfriend Vicki Allen unopened for 47 years after she broke up with him. Allen says she didn’t realize Pearce’s feelings were so intense. Orangutan: Out of the cage and into the jungle On the Indonesian island of Sumatra, orangutans are being released into the wild. The female ape, Dora, who was raised in captivity, went to primate school at a reintroduction station, to prepare for release into the wild. French police arrest hundreds of students across the country French students have been blocking access to high schools across France in protest of President Emmanuel Macron's education reforms. #France #Franceprotests #giletsjaunes #Macron Teenager jailed for making hoax bomb threat to thousands of schools A teenager inspired by the Columbine High School massacre has been jailed after making bogus bomb threats to hundreds of UK schools and sparking an airport security scare.

George Duke-Cohan twice targeted schools in the UK and US with hoax messag... Paris high school vandalised as students protest Police block a street in central Paris where a high school was vandalized as French students protest across the country. Marseille high school students clash with police Thousands of high school students take to the streets in Marseille, as more and more join students protest against education reforms affecting university admission. Kevin Hart will host 2019 Oscars 'Night School' star Kevin Hart has been announced as the host of the 2019 Academy Awards, and he is delighted for "the opportunity of a lifetime" to be at the helm of the Oscars. Michelle Obama speaks at London girls' school Michelle Obama spoke to pupils in North London about the power of education. Sniper School: Elite NATO Shooters Train In The Austrian Alps You are watching Elite NATO Snipers conducting training in the Austrian Alps. Aussie kids skip school for mass climate protest Thousands of Australian students skip school to join nationwide protests demanding government action on climate change. Sister of Syrian refugee assaulted in the UK is also targeted This Syrian girl has been bullied, assaulted and she's even had her headscarf ripped off. The incident took place at the same school in the UK where her 15-year-old brother was choked and mockingly ""waterboarded"".
#bully, #racism, #refugee WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.