Sharlene Rood WATCH: Diver struggles to wade through trash in Durban harbour Video footage of a diver, struggling to make his way out of the Durban harbour due to the sea of trash blocking his way, has surfaced on social media. Video footage of a diver, struggling to make his way out of the Durban harbour due to the sea of trash blocking his way, has surfaced on social media. (Clean Surf Project) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Video footage of a diver struggling to make his way out of the Durban harbour due to a line of trash has surfaced on social media. The Clean Surf Project uploaded the video to Facebook and it has since garnered more than 124 000 views. The diver in the video told News24 that the rubbish was about a half a metre thick. "I jumped in and I don't know how I even got through it to attempt the dive. After a half an hour's diving, to come back up was actually proving quite difficult. I couldn't see where I was. There was just rubbish above my head. I had to kind of dig my way up," he said. The diver said he even had a plastic bag and a condom stuck to his breathing device at one point. "I literally had to leopard crawl over the rubbish and try push myself to the tyre. I struggled." 'It's been around for years' He's been working in and around the harbour for roughly seven years now and says it has always been filled with litter. "It's not a new problem, or something that's just cropped up. It's been around for years," he said. He had been diving in a section of the harbour called Maydon Wharf, located close to the storm water drains at the back of the harbour. After a storm, he says, waste from the city gets washed into the harbour. "When I dive a lot, within the harbour, especially in the back end, you'll see fish floating dead. You can see plastic around it. I've opened up a few fish and they have plastic inside their stomach." The diver said there was only one boat, with two men and a net that clean the harbour, and they could easily place nets over the stormwater drains to catch the rubbish. Clean Surf Project's Candice Harding told News24 the non-profit organisation shared the video in the hope that it would highlight the problem to the public and the powers that be. "There are so many facets to the problem that it's difficult to pin point how to solve it," she said. Collecting plastic, not shells "We are hoping to change people's attitudes towards their single-use plastic consumption and careless disposal of such items." "Something we use once for a few minutes will last on this Earth for hundreds of years causing untold devastation in its wake." She says the first step toward change is simply not purchasing plastic products. The second step, she says, is disposing of plastic and other waste materials in a responsible way. "When I was little we used to go to the beach and collect shells. Now I've got three kids and we're going and picking up plastic, because it's literally every step you take." "I don't think people realise how bad it is," Harding said. She says people often share these videos and comment that something has to be done. "But it can't just be left to a handful of people. Everyone needs to be doing something." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Dale Steyn on Proteas bowling attack: Who's better than us? Fast bowler Dale Steyn praised the Proteas bowling attack of himself, Kagiso Rabada, Vernon Philander and Duanne Olivier and questioned who's currently better in the world. WATCH: Police investigate assault at Pretoria pub after owner and employee exchange blows Police are investigating a case of common assault after a man, believed to be an employee of Die Watergat Pub in Pretoria North, was assaulted outside the establishment, presumably by his boss. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. Sneaky leopard catches impala mid-air in perfect hunt A leopard managed to sneak up to some unsuspecting impalas and snagged himself lunch in Kruger National Park, South Africa. The cinematic journey of Beautiful Boy The movie is based on the twin memoirs of David Sheff and his son, Nic, about each's perspective on Nic's decade-long, nearly fatal plunge into meth addiction. WATCH: Overstrand fire rages on Air support has been brought in to battle a large fire in the Overstrand area in the Western Cape. The fire has devastated areas close to Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.