Kaveel Singh Classroom (File, Getty Images/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Eastern Cape Department of Education has begun investigations into alleged segregation of pupils at King Edward High School in Matatiele, which also has primary school classes, following complaints from community members. "The delegation has arrived at the school. It should be noted that the department will also meet with the community to ascertain a full understanding of the matter," department spokesperson Malibongwe Mtima said on Monday. The Sunday Times published a report this weekend saying that the school's Grade 1 group had a class for black pupils and one for white pupils. ALSO READ: Viral race row picture only captured a single moment – Laerskool Schweizer-Reneke In the report, King Edward High School governing body chairperson Andrew Duminy explained that children who battle with English are kept in a separate class until Grade 3, for special assistance. According to the report, there are 27 children in the all-black class, 13 in the all-white class and 27 in a mixed race class. Mtima said the department would not preempt the outcome of investigations. "We want to conclude the investigation before we say anything. We will be thorough." He said that the department would meet with the community on Thursday. "After that point, we will start to see more of where we are with this matter."  WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral. WATCH: Cape pupil awarded for matriculating after surviving deadly fire Lance Minnies came close to losing his life in a deadly 2016 fire and almost gave up on his studies when he recovered. But it was the hope for a better future and the support of caring people at his school that pulled him through. WATCH: Grade 1 pupil gets ready for big school Starting Grade 1 is a big step for little ones. For Luca (6), getting ready for school took quite some time on Wednesday morning, but he soon got into the swing of things. From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.