Ntwaagae Seleka Laerskool Schweizer-Reneke schoolchildren. (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories More heads could roll at Laerskool Schweizer-Reneke, the North West education department said on Tuesday. Spokesperson Freddy Sepeng said if the department's investigations show more people are to blame for separating children in a Grade R class by race, it would not hesitate to wield its axe. Last week, the school suspended Elana Barkhuizen for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately. One of the images went viral, sparking outrage and discussion across the country. Barkhuizen and trade union Solidarity are expected to address the media on Tuesday afternoon about the teacher's suspension. It is understood they will confirm that they will take legal action over Barkhuizen's suspension. WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral. The union claims that Barkhuizen's suspension was unlawful. 'Right person' suspended Barkhuizen was the educator who took the photos, but it was not the class she taught. The teacher who heads the Grade R class remains at the school. Sepeng confidently said the department had suspended the "right person". "The culprit was pointed out to us by the school governing body and the principal as the one who is guilty of the offence. If our investigations reveal that more people are implicated in the scandal, we will not hesitate to suspend those people. "Even if the principal is linked, we are also going to suspend the principal," he said. Sepeng promised that the report into allegations of racism at the school would be released by the end of February. On Tuesday morning, several security guards were seen roaming around the schoolyard, while learning and teaching was taking place.  WATCH: Cape pupil awarded for matriculating after surviving deadly fire Lance Minnies came close to losing his life in a deadly 2016 fire and almost gave up on his studies when he recovered. But it was the hope for a better future and the support of caring people at his school that pulled him through. WATCH: Grade 1 pupil gets ready for big school Starting Grade 1 is a big step for little ones. For Luca (6), getting ready for school took quite some time on Wednesday morning, but he soon got into the swing of things. From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg. WATCH: This 30-year-old family business is a school hotspot for Joburg families Gauteng schools open on Wednesday and parents are on the hunt for affordable school uniforms. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg. WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.