Lerato Sejake Allegations of abuse at SA consulate in Munich after video shows employee attempting suicide Ill-treatment of staff at the South African Consulate in Munich, Germany has come under the spotlight after a video emerged of a woman trying to take her own life on the premises. Isaac Rondganger assists an employee who tried to take her own life allegedly at the SA Consulate offices in Munich. (Screengrab) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Three former employees at the South African consulate in Munich, Germany, have told News24 of the ill treatment they received at the hands of South African staffers between 2015 and 2017. One incident culminated in Bosnian national Sherifa Fific attempting to take her life by jumping out of a bathroom window in October 2016 – footage of which is circulating online. Fific told News24 she attempted suicide when she was dismissed for taking medical leave after working at the consulate for 12 years. Fellow consulate employee Isaac Rondganger witnessed the incident and can be seen trying to restrain Fific in the video. Rondganger resigned in December 2016. 'Tears, sleepless nights' In an email to Consul General George Monyemangene, dated May 2017, Rondganger describes the tense conditions under which he worked. "I can safely say that my time at the consulate is the worst employment period I have experienced in the South African government thanks to you," the email reads. "You should be ashamed of yourself for the amount of tears, sleepless nights, stress, uncertainty, fear and anger you have caused," the former employee wrote. Wrongful dismissal Ruth Majozi – another aggrieved former employee – won a case of wrongful dismissal against the consulate in January 2016. Majozi’s employment as an administration clerk was terminated five months after Monyemangene’s appointment. According to Majozi, Monyemangene had alleged that she did not have the correct papers to work and fired her for permit non-compliance. The Munich Labour Court ruled in Majozi’s favour. "The immigration office confirms that the person concerned [Majozi] has an unlimited permit to take up employment," a 2015 email from the local district reads. Majozi was awarded compensation. Dirco investigating Monyemangene would not comment on the allegations and directed questions to the Department of International Relations and Cooperation (Dirco). Dirco spokesperson Ndivhuwo Mabaya told News24 that the department had received complaints from the Munich office. Mabaya confirmed the department was aware of the video, and that it formed a part of an investigation into the grievances. "We have received complaints and the minister [Lindiwe Sisulu] is attending to the matter," he told News24. *Fific and Rondganger, who both appear in the video, have provided News24 with permission to publish the video without obscuring their identities. WATCH: Pretoria West streets gridlocked as residents burn tyres and block roads Motorists and commuters have been warned to avoid several parts of Pretoria West on Thursday owing to protest action that started in the early hours of the morning. WATCH Hundreds of flamingo chicks admitted to SANCCOB for life-saving rehabilitation Over 2 000 abandoned and distressed flamingo chicks were jetted all over South Africa this week as part of a series of mercy flights from Kimberley after their habitat came under threat due to water problems. 'Our rail system has gone to the dogs' - DA protests at Prasa offices The Democratic Alliance held a picket outside the offices of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA) in Hatfield, Pretoria on Wednesday. WATCH: Armed thieves attack cash-in-transit guards in Krugersdorp A money truck was attacked by armed thieves after guards were collecting money from a filling station in Kagiso on Monday. WATCH: 10 vehicles torched in Kempton Park Six light vehicles and four trucks were torched and damaged, while two truckers escaped with minor injuries following an attack allegedly by striking plastic industry employees. WATCH: Musician Jeremy Olivier gifts friendly newspaper salesman with a car Musician Jeremy Olivier and his family changed a magazine salesman's life by giving him their car  on Saturday. LISTEN: That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. LISTEN: 'That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. WATCH: Political party 'slaughters' watermelon on Cape beach in video stunt A small political party has staged a mock sacrifice of a watermelon on a Cape Town beach in response to the slaughter of a sheep in December. WATCH: Passenger in BMW horror crash 'a real possibility' New footage of the horrific crash which saw street racer Taufiq Carr crash his speeding BMW M3 on the N1 in Cape Town last week indicate that a passenger may have been in the car. WATCH: Woman robbed at gunpoint outside Midrand shopping centre Police are investigating a case of armed robbery after a woman was robbed at gunpoint in the parking lot of the Crowthorne shopping centre last week Wednesday. WATCH: House robbers make off with goods, cash worth R200 000 A family locked themselves in a room while a gang of house robbers in Johannesburg helped themselves to goods valued at R200 000 in a matter of minutes. WATCH: 'Knitwits for Madiba' - South Africans crochet their way to world record It took 737 "KnitWits for Madiba" 27 minutes of sheer "woolpower" to clinch their latest world record - for the most people crocheting simultaneously. WATCH: Prophet Bushiri takes responsibility for deadly church stampede Prophet Shepherd Bushiri on Monday appeared at the CRL Rights Commission hearing looking into the stampede that claimed three lives at the Enlightened Christian Gathering Church (ECG) in Pretoria. WATCH- Aerial footage shows Lion's Head fire aftermath Aerial footage shows Lion's Head fire aftermath taken from one of the Working on fire Helicopters WATCH: Cape nursery launches dagga growing kits A Cape Town garden centre says it's received unprecedented interest from prospective growers since launching its cannabis starter kits last week. Watch. WATCH: Fire engulfs Lion's Head Families living in Sea Point, Cape Town evacuated their homes on Sunday evening as the flames that engulfed the lower slopes of Lion's Head near Quarry Hill were coming down on them. WATCH: SA recognises Maduro as Venezuela's leader and no one else Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Lindiwe Sisulu has said South Africa recognises Nicolas Maduro as the rightful leader of Venezuela and would use its vote in the UN security council to that effect. WATCH: Cyril Ramaphosa speaking at the start of his official state visit in India South African President Cyril Ramaphosa speaking at the start of his official state visit in India. He is flanked by Indian Prime Minister Nareandri Modi (in white) and Indian President Ram Nath Kovind WATCH: 'Give me a tender' - sings satirical 'Elvis' on Bosasa scandal The much-talked about Bosasa scandal has gripped South Africa over the past week since former chief-operating officer Angelo Agrizzi blew the whistle on bribery and corruption. WATCH: Thieves ambush and rob sleeping truck driver A video of a truck driver valiantly fighting off a suspected robber who broke into his truck while he was sleeping inside has surfaced on social media. WATCH: This race horse just sold for a cool R4 million This year's top seller at the Cape Premier Yearling Sale was an unnamed filly that sold for R4 million from the Klawervlei Stud farm located in Breede River outside Bonnievale, Western Cape. VIDEO: Police, SPCA say these monkeys probably didn't escape from hijacked vehicle Two separate videos of a monkey jumping between homes and one casually strolling about have emerged on social media. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma's culpable homicide trial postponed to March The culpable homicide case against Duduzane Zuma was postponed to March 26 in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday. WATCH: 'That's why Julius must take the land' - woman's Clicks rant goes viral Video footage of a woman verbally attacking a fellow customer at a Clicks pharmacy in Durban has been widely circulated on social media. WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. Woman in critical condition after Audi horror crash A woman is in a critical condition after the Audi she was traveling in veered off the road, became airborne and slammed into a sign post, emergency services have said. WATCH: What makes a champion race horse? The next generation of champion race horses is up for auction at the Cape Premier Yearling Sale where buyers are prepared to part with millions, but it may be a very expensive gamble. WATCH: Police arrest KZN man who threatened to blow up office workers Police have arrested a KwaZulu-Natal man who threatened to blow up office workers with a bomb. WATCH: IEC hails new law to ensure transparency in political party funding President Cyril Ramaphosa signed the Political Party Funding bill into law on Tuesday. WATCH: 10 million eligible voters are unregistered - IEC Almost 10 million South Africans who are eligible to vote are not registered, the Independent Electoral Commission said on Wednesday. WATCH: Video of Durban businessman chastising white beggar goes viral A video of a Durban businessman refusing to give a white beggar R2 because "my forefathers will kill me", has gone viral on social media. WATCH: 'Leave her alone' - commuters defend passenger allegedly dragged from Kulula flight Fellow commuters of the passenger who was forcibly removed from a Kulula flight during the early hours of Saturday, insist that the woman did nothing wrong. Watch the footage above. WATCH: Pitso Mosimane blasts Wydad Casablanca players for intimidating the match officials Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane has fired at Moroccan side Wydad Casablanca and accused the visitors of trying to intimidate the match officials during a highly charged and emotional CAF Champions League group stages encounter at Lucas Moripe WATCH: Enterprising Joburgers 'ferry' passengers across flooded road Enterprising Joburgers came to the rescue of stranded pedestrians looking to cross a flooded street near Noord Street taxi rank. WATCH: Joburg security guard wounded in shootout with armed robbery suspects A security guard was shot and wounded as he investigated a suspected business robbery on the corner of Prichard and Mooi Streets in Johannesburg last Saturday afternoon.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.