Canny Maphanga Eight suspects wanted for serious crimes have been nabbed by Ekurhuleni police. (Supplied) (Chief Superintendent Wilfred Kgasago, EMPD) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Ekurhuleni Metro Police Department public policing task team and Eden Park detectives have nabbed eight suspects who were wanted for serious crimes in Eden Park and Palm Ridge. "The seven males and one female were picked up at various houses in Eden Park and Palm Ridge on charges of rape, murder, domestic violence, malicious damage to property, assault with [intent to cause grievous bodily harm] and common assault," Chief Superintendent Wilfred Kgasago said in a statement on Tuesday. The suspects were apprehended in the early hours of Tuesday morning between 03:00 and 08:30. The suspects, aged between 24 and 48, are being detained at Eden Park police station and will appear in the Palm Ridge Magistrate's Court soon. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: This 30-year-old family business is a school hotspot for Joburg families Gauteng schools open on Wednesday and parents are on the hunt for affordable school uniforms. WATCH: Queuing won't guarantee university admission The University of Johannesburg is urging prospective students to register online Instead of queuing on campus. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. WATCH: Train up in flames in Mayfair Two carriages of a passenger train caught fire at Mayfair Station, west of Johannesburg on Sunday. WATCH: Leeuwkop prison surprise raid: Dagga, shanks and cellphones found On Thursday morning the Department of Correctional Services executed a surprise raid at Leeuwkop prison in Johannesburg, catching inmates off guard and revealing their illicit possessions. WATCH: Door of Hope: A new beginning for abandoned babies The Door of Hope organisation has taken care of more than 1500 children since it was established in 1999.

One of the ways they take in children is through the "baby bin" - a hole in the wall were parents can leave their unwanted babies. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. WATCH: Timol family allowed to intervene in Rodrigues stay of prosecution bid The legal representatives of late struggles activists, Ahmed Timol and Dr Hoosen Haffejee appeared at the Gauteng high court in Johannesburg on Wednesday. WATCH. WATCH: Langa residents loot hijacked, abandoned truck Residents in Langa took advantage of a hijacked truck in Cape Town on Wednesday after stealing goods from the abandoned vehicle. WATCH: Artist Ayanda Mabulu arrested over 'blame it on the boers' painting Controversial artist Ayanda Mabulu, 37, was arrested outside the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) on Wednesday, following a display of his artwork stating, "blame it on the boers". WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. VIDEO | Festive blitz: 11 Joburg nightclubs raided during late night police operation Eleven places of entertainment were raided in the Johannesburg inner city on Tuesday night as part of the Buya Mthetho campaign. WATCH: Chinese national shot and wounded, cash stolen in Johannesburg A Chinese national was shot and wounded and cash stolen out of his vehicle when several armed robbers pounced on his car south of Johannesburg yesterday. WATCH: Police threaten to slap man for filming pulled over Lamborghini A resident of Daveyton on the East Rand was threatened by Ekurhuleni metro police on Sunday after he stopped to film footage of a green Lamborghini that had been pulled over by officers. WATCH: CCTV footage of brazen robbery at Durban curry restaurant The Copper Chimney at the Chatsworth Centre, near Durban, was stormed and robbed by four men as the restaurant was closing up on Sunday night, East Coast Radio (ECR) reported. WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. WATCH: Motorist escapes hijacking, reverses into assailants' car Police are on the hunt for four men who were involved in a botched hijacking in the north of Johannesburg, last week. WATCH: Quick-thinking motorist leaves hijackers empty-handed A video of a failed hijacking attempt in Johannesburg has surfaced on social media on Tuesday. WATCH: CCTV emerges of Sasol garage chaos as thugs target Global Citizens concertgoers What was supposed to be an exciting ending to a day filled with international entertainment, turned out to be a horrific ordeal for concertgoers outside the FNB Stadium in Johannesburg on Sunday evening. WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. WATCH: Looters target truck trapped by too low bridge The driver of this RTT Intelligent Logistics truck found himself stuck between a bridge he could not pass under and a group of waiting looters late last week. WATCH: Video shows biker robbed at gunpoint in Edenvale A motorcyclist was robbed of goods and cash in Edenvale, east of Johannesburg, on the corner of Terrace Road and Smith Avenue on Tuesday. WATCH: Conterfeit goods confiscated in by-law enforcement operation Thirteen bags of counterfeit goods valued at R700 000.00 was confiscated in Tshwane on Wednesday. WATCH: 2 men catch ride on back of truck carrying flammable liquid Two men were spotted on Monday catching a ride on the back of a truck carrying flammable liquid on a freeway in Johannesburg. WATCH: Thieving quartet make off with stolen goods in Sophiatown, Johannesburg Four male suspects were court on video while robbing a house in Sophiatown, Johannesburg last week. 
The quartet can be seen loading small house-hold items into a blue VW Golf outside the Good Street residence. WATCH: Durban thieves give up after relentless pursuit by security officers Two suspected thieves were arrested by Marshall Security after they tried to steal a vehicle from Musgrave Road in Berea, Durban. WATCH: Shady character steals designer sunglasses A thief with sticky fingers was able to steal two pairs of designer sunglasses from an optical store in Johannesburg last Friday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.