Sesona Ngqakamba Mayfair Jummah Masjid in Johannesburg. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 40-year-old man has been shot dead outside the Mayfair Jummah Masjid in Johannesburg on Tuesday night. Gauteng police spokesperson Colonel Lungelo Dlamini told News24 the incident occurred at about 19:00.He said two unknown suspects are believed to have shot a man who was leaving the mosque. "When he went back to the mosque he was followed by these suspects.... He died at the scene," said Dlamini. "One civilian was also wounded in the neck and he has been taken to the hospital." Dlamini said the motive for the attack was still unknown and a case of murder and attempted murder has been opened. No arrests have been made and police are investigating the matter. "They [police] are still at the scene to take some statements from the witnesses," he said. Unconfirmed reports of a shooting outside mosque in Mayfair tonight. According to source one person killed: “He was in the parking lot and running into the masjid when they shot him in front of all the musalee who were coming out from maghrib”. pic.twitter.com/TnkrTE9P4e Reports of an alleged hit In the Mosque Yard in Hanover Street, Mayfair @CityofJoburgZA . One Victim dead, 3 worshippers hurt. Two perpetrators escaped. Men walked into the mosque yard and shot the victim about 8 times from a 2 metre distance. @SAPoliceService pic.twitter.com/lTGh8bj3fq Reports of a shooting outside the Mayfair Mosque in Johannesburg. One person killed and three worshippers injured. Appears to have been a hit. #CrimeWatch There has been a spate of attacks on mosques last year. In two separate incidents in Cape Town, a 30-year-old man was shot and killed, and an Imam was injured in November, while two men died after an attack at a Malmesbury mosque in June. A mosque attack in Verulam, outside Durban, in May saw unknown men storming the Imam Hussain Mosque in Ottawa. During the attack, one person was killed and part of the Shia mosque was set alight and an explosive device was found in the building a few days later. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.