Pieter van Zyl George. (Photo: Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Just like Job in the Bible, Georgie van Zyl (38) had been left with nothing. First he lost his hearing. Then his biological mother, with whom he’d been reunited after 20 years, passed away. He lost his job, and all his teeth. But thanks to a new makeover programme on Via (DStv channel 147) called Wraak My Mooi (literally translated as Revenge Me Beautiful), he has new hope for the future. “It’s miraculous,” he gushes. “My first miracle was 17 years ago when I was reunited with my biological mother and family,” Georgie writes in an email from Johannesburg. His biological mother, Dawn van Zyl, passed away in 2008. “She died at the age of 45 of heart failure,” Georgie says. Dawn was only 15 when she had him and gave him up for adoption. As a foster child, his biggest desire was to be reunited with his biological family. In 2001 he wrote to YOU magazine’s now defunct Desperately Seeking, where a family member spotted his letter. “Not a day went by that I didn’t think of him and wonder what kind of a man he’d become,” Dawn (then 38) told YOU. Georgie thinks his mom might have felt both happy at his transformation and sad that he’d neglected his appearance. “It makes me happy when someone I haven’t seen in a long time sees me now [after the transformation],” he adds. “Though I’ve lost touch with many friends over the years, I’ve also made contact with many of them – I’m surrounded by loving people.” He feels much more attractive after the makeover and it’s boosted his self-confidence – which is why he decided to take part in the series. “I felt overwhelmed and wanted the freedom to show my self-confidence with a beautiful smile,” he explains. He’d suffered from a gum infection and his medical aid had refused to pay for treatment. He quit the medical scheme and didn’t go to a dentist for 12 years. In that time, his teeth crumbled and fell out. In 2013 he was retrenched from his job at an insurance firm in Randburg, Johannesburg, due to restructuring. He moved to Cape Town, where he lived with a friend in Parklands while looking for work – unsuccessfully. He was unemployed from December 2013 until July 2017.  Then he moved back to Johannesburg, where a friend helped him find a job in Hectorspruit, Mpumalanga, as a surveyor and general assistant at a lodge. “For a long time, I dreamt of becoming a chef but I realised that’s not who I am anymore. I’ll discover my dream when the time is right – my heart will know.” “Before we started interviewing participants, we knew we were looking for real people with real stories,” says Dr Zak Schabort from The Cosmetic and Dental Emporium, which has branches countrywide. Dr Schabort is part of the makeover team on Wraak My Mooi.  “He spoke to our hearts and we loved him instantly,” adds his colleague Dr Wim de Beer, who’s also on the makeover team. Procedures done on Georgie included chemical peels on his skin, implants to replace his teeth, and lip and cheekbone fillers.  Viewers can look forward to more stories about people who’ve been through hard times and need a drastic change. The programme is aimed at healing the physical scars and remnants of this trauma.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.