Jenni Evans A fire broke out in Mossel Bay. (Photo via Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Firefighters are battling a blaze which flared up in Hartenbos Heuwels, Mossel Bay around noon on Monday, Working on Fire (WOF) said. "It is being fanned by strong winds," said WOF spokesperson Lauren Howards. They have sent aerial help, which includes two spotter planes and a helicopter. The George Municipality said they sent a crew, a firefighting vehicle and a helicopter to help their colleagues in Mossel Bay. The SPCA in Mossel Bay was also assisting with the moving of pets out of the area, according to the Mossel Bay advertiser. Preliminary reports on social media said at least two houses were evacuated as the blaze threatened homes. This is a developing story.  Elsewhere, a grass fire had also broken out near the Outeniqua Research Farm outside George and another at Kammanassie, in an isolated region outside George. The Southern Cape Fire Protection Assocation (SCFPA) said of Kammanassie that tyres were burning and that the fire spread into vegetation. The George Municipal Fire and Rescue Service sent a unit from the Uniondale Satellite Fire Station and the SCFPA also sent a unit from the Uniondale base. The latest fires along the southern coast of the Western Cape come after the recent fires in Betty's Bay, approximately 300km from Mossel Bay, as well as around the Hermanus hills and near Houw Hoek Pass. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Fire rescue Bambi trotting on the road to recovery At just a few months old, a rescued baby Cape Grysbok has touched the hearts of the many residents of the Cape overstrand area, which has recently been underthreat by a devastating fire for two weeks. 'The fire was higher than the roof here'- Hermanus farmer "Camphill, you've got 30 minutes until that fire is on you." These were the chilling words that came through as a Hermanus farm community, housing 54 intellectually disabled patients, was forced to evacuate. WATCH: Betty's Bay fire victim shares heartbreaking experience of the blaze A Betty's Bay resident has spoken out about the trauma of losing her home in a fire that raged through the town at the weekend. WATCH: At least 31 houses destroyed in Overstrand wildfires; video shows devastation in Betty's Bay At least 31 houses have been completely destroyed and 28 partially damaged by wildfires on the coastal Overstrand region in the Western Cape. WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. WATCH: Western Cape firefighters end gruelling day with uplifting song A group of firefighters returned to their base at the Crassula hall in Betty's Bay on Friday, with song and dance. WATCH: Overstrand fire rages on Air support has been brought in to battle a large fire in the Overstrand area in the Western Cape. The fire has devastated areas close to Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els. WATCH: Train up in flames in Mayfair Two carriages of a passenger train caught fire at Mayfair Station, west of Johannesburg on Sunday. WATCH: Used car dealership goes up in flames The New Year got off to a bad start for the owner of this used car dealership in Goodwood, Cape Town. 
Tony McGeer, owner of Mc Gee's Auto says he received a phone call in the early hours of January 2, alerting him to a fire at his dealership. WATCH: Firefighter fight blaze to save hectares of Paarl fynbos destroyed in fire At least 500ha of 15-year-old fynbos was lost in the fire that swept through part of Paarl mountain, the Drakenstein municipality said as they scaled down on operations on Friday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.