Omega Ngema THE Rotary Club Port Shepstone held its Coins for Charity fundraiser last Saturday. This unique event used a broad strip of double sided tape placed across the main promotion court’s floor of the Southcoast Mall and Shelly Centre, highlighting the sponsor logos along the length of the tape. Rotarians and Child Welfare Port Shepstone staff Carol Meth (public relations officer) and Samantha Podmore (fundraiser), along with other volunteers were on hand during the day to assist the public place their donations on the tape. Donations came in from people of all walks of life. The young and the elderly, took time out from their busy day to contribute and help those in need. As the day progressed the tape began to fill and grow with both coins and notes from the generosity of many who took the time to stop by and donate. “The Rotary Club Port Shepstone wishes to express its heartfelt gratitude to the Southcoast Mall, Shelly Centre, sponsors and South Coast residents for their tremendous heart-warming response to the call of support towards this worthy cause,” said event coordinator and Rotarian Rowan D’Arcy. This fundraising project was a great success and the proceeds of this event will be handed over to Child Welfare Port Shepstone, who will in turn be using the much needed funds to assist with the back to school programme that assists needy children with items like school uniforms and supplies for the 2019 school year. “We are ever so grateful for the generous support from Rotary Port Shepstone, the sponsors and the public that contributed on the day. Your contribution has certainly taken a load off from many that cannot afford the bare essentials and will put a smile on these children’s faces as they embrace the new school year,” said Carol Meth Public Relations Officer at Child Welfare Port Shepstone. “We were blessed to have on board for this amazing event the support from our main sponsors who are Beekman Group as the title sponsors, Umthunzi Hotel as a special sponsor, Barry, Botha and Breytenbach, Thompson Motors, Margate Engineering, Mowat and Partners and Jay Rambharos as Gold sponsors, as well as Cardinal Motors, Southern Natal Construction, Curnow Natal, Steve Gregory, Erich Buhr, Caryl Peatt and as silver sponsors Rowan and Joan D’Arcy.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.