Sharlene Rood WATCH: Home Affairs officials caught on their phones; department to investigate The Department of Home Affairs will investigate a matter in which officials were filmed using their cellphones, while on duty. The Department of Home Affairs will investigate a matter in which officials at the Tongaat office in KwaZulu-Natal was filmed using their cellphones, while on duty.  
Video footage of two officials on their phones and not helping customers, was widely circulated on social media.  (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Department of Home Affairs has said it will investigate after officials were filmed using their cellphones while on duty. Video footage of two officials on their phones at the Tongaat office in KwaZulu-Natal was widely circulated on social media. In the video members of the public can be seen waiting to be helped. Acting home affairs director general Thulani Mavuso has instructed the provincial manager for KwaZulu-Natal to visit the office and to conduct an urgent investigation. Home affairs released a statement saying it had noted social media posts showing officials "seemingly" on their cellphones while on duty. "The department's policy is quite clear on this matter. The use of cellular phones by front office officials while performing their duties is prohibited," Home Affairs Minister Siyabonga Cwele's spokesperson Siya Qoza said. "Officials at front offices are trained to refrain from using such gadgets when they are supposed to be serving citizens and other clients." Call for cellphone ban The department said appropriate action, informed by the outcome of the investigation, would be taken. "That may include subjecting the implicated officials to internal disciplinary processes," Qoza said. The chairperson of the Portfolio Committee on Home Affairs, Hlomani Chauke, has urged the department to consider an outright ban on cellphone usage by frontline staff during working hours at all home affairs offices. This is due to numerous complaints the committee has received from the public about delays at home affairs offices. "It is unacceptable that [members of] the public spend excessive amounts of time at home affairs offices, while officials spend a disproportionate amount of time busy with their cellphones," Chauke said. "Officials are primarily employed to offer a service and the complaints point to dereliction of duty by some officials, yet they continue to draw a salary at the end of the month." The Public Servants Association of South Africa has slammed the call by the committee to ban the use of cellphones by frontline workers, labelling it "misplaced and ill-informed". KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Armed local farmer walks into demonstration in Greyton Western Cape police are probing an incident in which a man was caught on camera wielding a firearm during a demonstration in Greyton on Monday. WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. WATCH: Motorist refuses to 'pay' bribe for speeding A video of a Mpumalanga motorist confronting traffic officers after they allegedly asked him for a bribe has gone viral on social media. WATCH: Betty's Bay fire victim shares heartbreaking experience of the blaze A Betty's Bay resident has spoken out about the trauma of losing her home in a fire that raged through the town at the weekend. WATCH: Limpopo diesel thief drives off without paying R3 179 bill A white Ford Ranger bakkie was caught on CCTV camera making off with fuel worth R3 179, without paying a cent. WATCH: Man desperately tries to save beached dolphin When Paul Gardiner spotted a dolphin stranded on a beach in the Eastern Cape, he didn't think twice before trying to rescue the animal.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.