Kaveel Singh Summit College pupil Moraswi Manyathela urged 2019 matriculants to take time out for themselves. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A
Midrand matriculant, who is one of the outstanding achievers for the class of
2018, has advised others to do what is required of them in school. - Sign
up to receive your matric results and you could win R10 000! "I would say, just do the
homework. You have to also help each other as friends, teachers and a
community. Whatever it is, just support one another and do your work,"
Summit College pupil Moraswi Manyathela said on Wednesday. He emerged as a top achiever at
his school, racking up six distinctions, with an average of 81%. Assistance
from family and friends "Family and friends played a
large role in keeping me motivated. They encouraged me to work harder and stick
with whatever I was doing." Manyathela said calm washed over
him when he realised he had been earmarked as an outstanding pupil. "To be honest, a relief more
than anything else. At this stage you're just glad that all the hard work and
effort you put in [in] the beginning paid off." He said that his mother was his
biggest source of support. "This was more important for
her than I think I could even begin to imagine. In primary, I was not doing
that great. She spent a lot of late nights doing homework with me." He said that a solid regiment was
important to his success. - See our Matric
Results page. "I firstly kept myself
healthy. Exercise and spending time with people you care about is important. I
would say I also focused on what exactly I would study. I did not go through
textbooks blindly. There was a lot of planning and getting additional resources
from friends who finished matric before me. This included past papers." 'Just be a
kid' He said there was a time in 2018
when his focus waned. "There was a time when I
started slacking off, naturally. But I stayed diligent, did the hard work and
pushed through." He said that he also played a lot
of soccer. "You just have to do things
in your spare time that shuts down your brain. Talk to people about different
things. Just be a kid." He said he hoped to study law. "I only decided this morning
that I want to be a human rights lawyer. It is something relevant to young
people. It’s a new world and there are lots of old lawyers out there."  WATCH: SAPS escort pupils to matric farewell in Nyala Making an entrance is an extra bonus point when making a statement at a matric farewell. One couple in particular, turned heads when they rocked up in a police Nyala van escorted by police officers at their farewell in Newcastle over the weekend. Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Head boy and top achiever ready to 'get his future started' King David High School Linksfield's 2017 head boy, who earned seven distinctions in the IEB matric exams, has some advice for those entering their matric year. Here are the alternate avenues to explore if your matric results weren't ideal Here are the alternate avenues to explore of your matric results weren't ideal Matric pass rate should be at 100% - Wits professor Wits professor Marissa Rollnick says a matric pass rate of 100% is achievable. 'Consistency was key for me' - Rebecca Haines, top matric mathematics achiever Top matric mathematics achiever Rebecca Haines from Rustenburg High School For Girls in Cape Town says her excellent results came down to working consistently. Matric exams: How does upward mark adjustment work? Upward mark adjustments usually take place when exam papers are proven to be more difficult than previous years. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. 'I strategised; I had a timetable and I stuck to it' - top matric achiever Mapula Sebati Thousands of matrics throughout the country will know their individual results on Wednesday. However, the top achievers for the class of 2015 were celebrated on Tuesday after the official announcement by Minister of Education, Angie Motshekga. Top SA matric says his rare disease motivated him to study medicine this year After missing almost two terms of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker still managed to be the overall top achiever of 2015. WATCH: You have a second chance to ace matric Universities across the country are about to open up their doors. Although the national pass rate was 71. 5%, many students did not obtain the necessary results to get them into institutions of higher learning. 'The bigger plan is to become president,' says top matric performer Tumelo Mashigo, part of the class of 2017, hopes to one day be president.

The 18-year-old was the second best performing learner with special needs among the most recent matriculants and hopes to make the world a better place one day. WATCH: 5 tips to acing your matric exams Matric examination got underway on Monday across the country. Here are a few tips for A+ results.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.