Sharlene Rood WATCH: Man desperately tries to save beached dolphin When Paul Gardiner spotted a dolphin stranded on a beach in the Eastern Cape, he didn't think twice before trying to rescue the animal. When Paul Gardiner spotted a dolphin stranded on a beach in the Eastern Cape, he didn't think twice before he tried to rescue it. "I suppose instinct just kicked in. I wanted to save it," Gardiner, CEO of beyond Africa for the Mantis Collection, told News24. Gardiner, who grew up in South Africa, has been living in the United Kingdom for the past 17 years. He and his family had been visiting relatives in South Africa for Christmas. He saw the dolphin on the beach when he went for a jog between Kleinemonde and the Fish River on Christmas Eve. "I thought it was dead actually," Gardiner said. "You often see animals getting washed up after big storms and there was a big storm on the go at the time." But he suddenly saw it move. "I thought, let me just give it a go and see," he said. He wanted to record his rescue attempt and positioned his phone in the sand to enable him to do so. "I thought a happy ending would make for such a cool story, but obviously it wasn't meant to be." He struggled for about 90 minutes, desperately trying to get the dolphin back out to sea. "It would swim out and kick with its tail and I thought, well, it still has lots of power. But then it kept on circling back." "I gave it a good go, but eventually I just saw it was never going to go back out again and so I kind of just let nature take its toll," he said. It was getting dark and Gardiner, who is also MD of the Bear Grylls Survival Academy, was aware that he was alone on the beach. "There was nobody out there so I couldn't swim out very far because if I suddenly got into trouble… you would've had a film of me dying. I was very cautious of that," he said. Gardiner described the experience as quite emotional. "It's always tough to walk away from a wild animal like that, stranded on the beach." "I never swam with a dolphin before and there I was doing it without consciously thinking: 'Well this is fun,' because it wasn't fun," he said. Although he never saw the dolphin's carcass, Gardiner assumed it died. "You could see it was on its last legs," he explained. The Department of Environmental Affairs (DEA) generally does not recommend that members of the public try to refloat beached animals by themselves. But Gardiner said he didn't think he'd be able to get a marine expert out on the beach at that time of the year in such a remote part of the world. DEA guidelines require members of the public to contact the National Sea Rescue Institute, which will dispatch the appropriate authorities to assess the animal's condition before attempting to refloat it. Upon arrival, a team will examine the animal, see if it is fit to be returned to the ocean, decide on a more appropriate location to do so, or euthanise it if it is too ill or injured to save. Here is a 10-point plan for anyone who finds stranded marine mammals: WATCH: Beached whale was 'suffering, in process of dying' "We may never know why the animal was stranded," Lieze Swart of the Department of Environmental Affairs (Oceans and Coasts) told News24, after an 11m sub-adult Humpback whale beached at Yzerfontein earlier this week. WATCH: Shark spotters: proactive initiative going swimmingly Naveron Lesch is on the lookout for the ocean's most dominant predator, one fully-trained member of a team of 30 Shark Spotters, a proactive early warning shark safety service operating on eight of Cape Town's beaches. The Bumpy Roads of South Africa's Wild Coast It's very easy to get lost on South Africa's Wild Coast, wandering its many magical beaches, combing for lost relics washed up by the ocean, or listening to the lively twitterings of the birds that are unseen in the forests' canopies. Quick-thinking couple saves sleeping man in burning Durban beachfront building A man was saved at the Durban beachfront on Friday morning, thanks to some quick thinking. WATCH: Hout Bay, Cape Town, rioters block roads, torch factory over fisherman's death Protesters in Hangberg, Hout Bay took to the streets on Monday to "fight for their brother" who went missing during an anti-poaching operation at sea. WATCH: Dead sailor found on yacht washed ashore in KZN A dead sailor, found aboard a yacht that washed ashore at a beach in Southbroom on the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast on Saturday, has been identified, provincial police have confirmed.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.