Pelane Phakgadi Zimbabwe army blames brutality on impostors The army in Zimbabwe says "bogus elements" are responsible for beating and killing civilians - rather than the security forces. The country is in the midst of protests over massive fuel price rises. DA leader Mmusi Maimane, at a press conference at Parliament in December. (Jan Gerber/News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories DA leader Mmusi Maimane wants the United Nations (UN), the International Criminal Court (ICC) and the South African government to intervene in the Zimbabwe "crisis". On Monday, Maimane said human rights were violated in recent protests in the country over the government's decision to increase the petrol price and this left at least a dozen people dead. "The year 2019 has started off in the worst conceivable way for our northern neighbours... today, the country finds itself on the verge of a humanitarian crisis," said Maimane. WATCH: "This is a crisis. This is a situation upon which the South African government cannot continue taking quiet diplomacy as a way forward.There is a humanitarian crisis taking place in Zimbabwe." - @MmusiMaimane#ZimbabweCrisis pic.twitter.com/ZfnmYTnZJm "Widespread civilian suppression, military-led violence and bloodshed has ensued, as Emmerson Mnangagwa's Zanu-PF government has implemented what can only be described as a dictator-like military clampdown on citizens, which has to date, claimed the lives of at least 12 people." Internet blacked out in Zimbabwe amid crackdown Zimbabwe was under an internet blackout on Friday after authorities extended a communications ban to cover emails. Meanwhile, the United Nations is urging an end to a security crackdown on civilians triggered by days of deadly protests. Saskia O'Dono READ: DA billboard a shameful act of political opportunism Maimane said citizens were shot and killed, homes were raided and the entire country was "effectively on lockdown". According to the Zimbabwe Human Rights NGO Forum, at least 12 people have been killed, with reports of 78  gunshot wounds, and 240 experienced "assault, torture, inhumane and degrading treatment". Maimane said he had been told that Zimbabweans were fleeing their country. He also heard from border officials that more than 130 000 people crossed the Beitbridge border post into South Africa in a single day in mid-January. "The situation is dire," Maimane added. "With the fall of the Mugabe regime, a sense of hope arose as change was promised by new President Emmerson Mnangagwa. Mnangagwa committed to doing things differently, and Zimbabweans believed this was indeed possible. However, over a year after Mnangagwa took office, nothing has changed". READ MORE: South African diplomacy on Zimbabwe can remain quiet – but it must get tough The DA leader also accused President Cyril Ramaphosa and his government of having "sat on its hands" and watched on, while employing the government's "quiet diplomacy" policy. "There has been no advocacy for the citizens, no justice for the deceased, and no protection of civil liberties for those who are currently detained." Maimane vowed to "fight against the oppression and murder of innocent Zimbabweans" who are mobilising and calling for change. "You have many friends in South Africa. Beyond your borders you have millions of allies in your fight for a free and open society." He said that his party would pursue a set of immediate interventions to resolve the "crisis". ALSO READ: At dawn, a township road in Zimbabwe turns into a fitness club In his capacity as chairperson of the Southern African Partnership for Democratic Change (SAPDC), he will pay a working visit to Zimbabwe this week to meet with opposition leader, Nelson Chamisa, and former MDC leader Tendai Biti, among others. "The purpose of this visit is to seek practical solutions to the ongoing crisis and garner support across the region for much-needed intervention in Zimbabwe". KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Looting deals Zimbabwe's businesses another blow Shops in Zimbabwe have been hit by looting during violent economic protests. The country is suffering from a major fuel and cash shortage. Zimbabwean opposition attends funeral of protest victim Zimbabwe's opposition leader Nelson Chamisa attends the funeral of one of the victims of deadly protests over fuel price hikes. Zimbabwe activist Mawarire back in court Zimbabwean activist Evan Mawarire is back in court for a second day where to face charges of subverting the Zimbabwe government. Mawarire is accused of subverting a constitutional government and incitement to commit violence by posting videos on s... Zimbabweans arrested for fuel protests appear in court About 70 people arrested for protesting fuel price increases in Zimbabwe three days ago arrive at Harare Magistrate’s Court. The nationwide protests were triggered by President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s announcement that fuel prices were doubling - res... WATCH: Mnangagwa and and his gangster must leave Zimbabwe alone - Zimbabweans Protesters marched to the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria on Wednesday in solidarity with their families who've been affected by the total shutdown in Zimbabwe Zimbabwean police arrest activist pastor as fuel protests enter third day Armed Zimbabwean police arrested a political activist at his home on Wednesday (January 16), his lawyer said, the third day of protests against fuel price hikes as businesses and schools stayed closed and networks enforced a government internet shutd WATCH: Mnangagwa and and his gangster must leave Zimbabwe alone - Zimbabweans A number of protesters marched to the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria on Wednesday in solidarity with their families who've been affected by the total shutdown in Zimbabwe. Zimbabwe protests after a 150 percent fuel price increase People in Zimbabwe took to the streets in the main cities of Harare and Bulawayo to protest a massive fuel price hike announced by the government. #Zimbabwe #protest #fuel Zimbabwe: streets of Harare empty after deadly demonstrations The streets of Zimbabwe's capital, Harare, are deserted after demonstrations against a government hike in fuel prices turned violent. Fury as Zimbabwe doubles fuel prices Protesters took to the streets of the capital over the government's sudden fuel price increase.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.