Sharlene Rood The New Year got off to a bad start for the owner of this used car dealership in Goodwood, Cape Town. 
Tony McGeer, owner of Mc Gee’s Auto says he received a phone call in the early hours of January 2, alerting him to a fire at his dealership in Voortrekker road.
 (News, Accidents, Robberies & Incidents ) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The new year got off to a bad start for the owner of this used car dealership in Goodwood, Cape Town. Tony McGeer, owner of Mc Gee's Auto, says he received a phone call in the early hours of Wednesday morning, alerting him to a fire at his dealership on Voortrekker Road. "We really don’t know what happened," he said. McGeer told News24 he lost 17 motor vehicles in the blaze. He suspects vagrants could have been responsible. "It looks like the fire jumped over the wall on top of my office, and then it caught fire," he said. The blaze spread from there. Video footage of the incident was posted on social media. In it, a loud explosion can be heard. McGeer says his security guard and the local police alerted him to the fire. "I rushed to the premises," he said. McGeer, who lives in Strand, arrived at the scene roughly 40 minutes later to find the dealership in flames. "It was all in flames; there was almost nothing left," he said. "I was so shocked to see my own business burning to the ground." Mc Gee's Auto has been operating at the premises for the past five years. The dealership sells a variety of cars, including bakkies and SUVs, and McGeer estimates the damages amount to roughly R3.5m. He says between 15 and 20 cars weren't affected by the blaze. The blaze was extinguished by 05:15 and no other properties were damaged. McGeer said a case was opened at Goodwood SAPS and he would collect a case number from the station later on Wednesday. Police spokesperson Captain FC van Wyk told News24 that their office is aware of the incident. "However no case has been registered with police as yet."   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.