Chante Schatz WATCH: Ramaphosa tees off ahead of ANC's manifesto launch President Cyril Ramaphosa enjoyed a day of golf on Friday morning ahead of  the ANC's birthday celebrations and manifesto launch on Saturday. Ramaphosa played alongside paired players at the Mount Edgecombe Country Club Estate in Durban. President Cyril Ramaphosa enjoyed a day of golf at the Mount Edgecombe golf estate on Friday morning. (Chante Schatz) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Watch as ANC officials officially launch the centennial celebration in honour of former president Nelson Mandela.WATCH President Cyril Ramaphosa enjoyed a few rounds of golf on Friday ahead of the ANC's birthday celebrations and manifesto launch in KwaZulu-Natal on Saturday. Ramaphosa played alongside paired players at the Mount Edgecombe Country Club Estate in Durban on Friday morning. The 66-year-old said that he enjoyed the day's activities and jokingly praised himself for beating his opponents. "It's a wonderful day with wonderful weather, and it's a very good premonition for tomorrow [Saturday]," he said. The party expects the Moses Mabhida Stadium to be filled to capacity on the day of the celebrations. It is said at least 1 300 buses will transport supporters to the venue. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   WATCH: Political parties say they are ready for the coming elections Political parties say that they are ready for the coming elections. Speaking to News24 at the IEC elections launch at the Gallagher Convention Centre, the leaders also urged those eligible to vote to go register on January 26 and 27. WATCH: Burning tyres, logs and truck light up Howick sky KwaZulu-Natal police say the violent protest that forced the closure of the N3 in the vicinity of Howick in KZN Midlands on Thursday night was sparked by the arrest of community members who had allegedly invaded a private property in the area. WATCH: Ramaphosa calls on private sector to assist with the fight against corruption Corruption has become a big issue that has to be addressed by the whole nation, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Thursday. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: Cape pupil awarded for matriculating after surviving deadly fire Lance Minnies came close to losing his life in a deadly 2016 fire and almost gave up on his studies when he recovered. But it was the hope for a better future and the support of caring people at his school that pulled him through. WATCH: Lanseria baggage handler to be rewarded for doing a sterling job at the carousel Every single piece of luggage that rolls past Ephraim Sibeko on the carousel at Lanseria International Airport is carefully maneuvered to be right side up with the handle pointing outward. All you have to do, is step up and grab what's yours.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.