Sesona Ngqakamba Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga (PHOTO: Felix Dlangamandla) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The real matric pass rate for 2018 is 37.6%, not 78.2%, the Democratic Alliance said on Friday. - Sign up here to get your 2018 matric results Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga on Thursday announced a national pass rate of 78.2% in last year's National Senior Certificate examinations – a 3.1% increase from 2017. The DA, however, said the adjusted pass rate was determined when including the total number of enrolled Grade 10 students in 2016 – who should now be in matric – compared to the total number who wrote and passed in 2018. Revision, staying active, working hard: Cream of 2018 matric crop share their insights Some of the 2018 National Senior Certificate (NSC) top achievers say that they remain anxious on how well they have done ahead of the results being announced at Midnight on Thursday. Of the 1 067 075 Grade 10s who were enrolled in 2016, only 512 735 wrote matric in 2018 – 48.1% of students – said DA MP Nomsa Marchesi in a statement. "These Grade 10s should be celebrating with other matriculants, but more than half didn’t write matric in the expected timeframe. This means only 37.6% of these Grade 10s passed matric," Marchesi said. Marchesi said other pupils had either become stuck in a "struggling education system repeating grades, or worse, dropped out of the system completely". Celebrations by MECs 'a slap in the face' to pupils "The 'real' matric pass rate for each province reveals a devastating reality: only the Western Cape managed to keep over 65% of its 2016 Grade 10s in school and through to writing matric on time," she said. Marchesi said the celebrations by the Gauteng and Free State education MECs were a "slap in the face" of pupils they had failed to serve along the way. "In Gauteng, 45% of its Grade 10s in 2016 didn’t write matric," she said. Calling for national investigation into 'culling' Marchesi claimed the Free State had a well-known reputation of "culling" or intentionally keeping back learners to inflate pass marks. "The DA has repeatedly called for a national investigation into 'culling', but Minister Angie Motshekga is not concerned," she said. - See our Matric Results page. Marchesi said the Multiple Exam Opportunity (MEO) which some provinces relied on, was a worry, as it was unclear how many of those pupils would return to complete their exams in June 2019. "The DA’s priority is clear: to ensure that learners get the best quality matric in the expected time frame, so that they can start their journey into further education and employment on time and in good stead," said Marchesi.  WATCH: SAPS escort pupils to matric farewell in Nyala Making an entrance is an extra bonus point when making a statement at a matric farewell. One couple in particular, turned heads when they rocked up in a police Nyala van escorted by police officers at their farewell in Newcastle over the weekend. Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schäfer rejoices as daughters ace their matric Head boy and top achiever ready to 'get his future started' King David High School Linksfield's 2017 head boy, who earned seven distinctions in the IEB matric exams, has some advice for those entering their matric year. Here are the alternate avenues to explore if your matric results weren't ideal Here are the alternate avenues to explore of your matric results weren't ideal Matric pass rate should be at 100% - Wits professor Wits professor Marissa Rollnick says a matric pass rate of 100% is achievable. 'Consistency was key for me' - Rebecca Haines, top matric mathematics achiever Top matric mathematics achiever Rebecca Haines from Rustenburg High School For Girls in Cape Town says her excellent results came down to working consistently. Matric exams: How does upward mark adjustment work? Upward mark adjustments usually take place when exam papers are proven to be more difficult than previous years. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. 'I strategised; I had a timetable and I stuck to it' - top matric achiever Mapula Sebati Thousands of matrics throughout the country will know their individual results on Wednesday. However, the top achievers for the class of 2015 were celebrated on Tuesday after the official announcement by Minister of Education, Angie Motshekga. Top SA matric says his rare disease motivated him to study medicine this year After missing almost two terms of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker still managed to be the overall top achiever of 2015. WATCH: You have a second chance to ace matric Universities across the country are about to open up their doors. Although the national pass rate was 71. 5%, many students did not obtain the necessary results to get them into institutions of higher learning. 'The bigger plan is to become president,' says top matric performer Tumelo Mashigo, part of the class of 2017, hopes to one day be president.

The 18-year-old was the second best performing learner with special needs among the most recent matriculants and hopes to make the world a better place one day. WATCH: 5 tips to acing your matric exams Matric examination got underway on Monday across the country. Here are a few tips for A+ results.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.