Canny Maphanga Herman Mashaba Buya Mthetho Operation (Chantelle Fourie-Shawe) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories ANC Johannesburg regional spokesperson, Jolidee Matongo, says City Of Johannesburg mayor, Herman Mashaba, has been focusing on painting the ANC with the brush of corruption, rather than focusing on delivery. Watch.  






WATCH City of Joburg Mayor Herman Mashaba is on a mission - to clamp down on illegal connections in developments in the city. "There's no doubt that there are individuals who are connecting to services illegally. "The aim of this process will be to identify those developments which are non-compliant and connected to the City's water, electricity and sewer services illegally," director of mayoral communications, Luyanda Mfeka, said in a statement on Tuesday. This comes after a Buya Mtheto operation last Wednesday established that the City lost almost R9m in revenue because three developments were illegally connected to services. "Illegal connections are an affront to all residents of Johannesburg. Historically, the City turned a blind eye to this lawlessness and simply burdened law-abiding citizens with annual tariff increases," Mfeka explained. "The City's R170bn infrastructure is of great concern and already impacts on the City's ability to deliver quality services. Ultimately, illegal connections hugely obstruct efforts to reduce this backlog," he added. The Buya Mtheto operation, which was launched in 2018, brought in more than R1.2bn that was owed to the City. ALSO READ: City of Johannesburg crackdown uncovers counterfeit goods worth R18m in a day "This is blatant theft and we cannot allow law-abiding, paying residents of our City to continue footing the bill for these practices," Mfeka added.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.