As you might expect from someone who works with words, the
young author’s directions to his house are detailed and precise. It’s a scorching
hot Monday afternoon in Pretoria as the Move! team make their way to the home
of Kamogelo Calvin Mogajane (20). “At the T-junction, turn left.
You’ll see a car wash on your right, go past it. Turn right before the school,then
count six streets until you see a blue salon on your left.” A few turns later
he guides us into his street and ends the call, saying, “You’ll see me outside,
wearing a pink shirt.” We spot Kamogelo but he doesn’t see
us. He’s blind. REMARKABLE ACCOMPLISHMENTS Kamogelo, who’s a twin, was born
blind. His brother, Edwin has full use of his vision. The recent high school
graduate hasn’t let his disability stop him from living life to the fullest, he
tells us. That was a decision he made at age 13 and so far he’s lived up to it –
he’s written three books and a stage play and he’s also directed four plays. “I always tell people that there’s a you in you that makes
you be you. Your personality can’t be tainted just because you’re blind. As
long as you can adopt a character of acceptance then you’ll be fine. Be the
product of your decisions.” PASSION FOR WRITING Kamogelo is particularly proud of his latest book, Strong
Woman, which he self-published. The book explores the hardships women face in
polygamous relationships. It was inspired by his mother’s life. “My mother was born into a polygamous marriage and married
into one. There are certain challenges that she went through and they’re
highlightedin the book,” he tells us. His mother, Mariam, is pictured on the book’s cover.
Kamogelo adds that while he grew up in a culture that practiced the custom, his
family wasn’t negatively affected by it. Strong Woman is his first English-language book, a decision
he took in order to reach a wider audience. His passion for writing began in
his teenage years when he discovered books like Es’kia Mphahlele’s memoir, Down
Second Avenue. “I attended a workshop on it and I just fell in love with writing.”
He credits Thobela FM presenter Happiness Thomo Maake for his inspiring words which
took him from being an aspiring writer to actually sitting down and writing. “I’ve never met him
but I wish to do so, someday.” Kamogelo’s first book
Sebatakgomo, a collection of short stories, was published in 2013. His second
book, a poetry anthology, is titled Mpepumpepu and was published in 2014. Both
are in Sepedi. His newest book was written on a laptop with the help of
special software. His previous books were written with his brother’s help. “I’d write a rough draft in Braille while I was at school
and at home he’d write it on paper for me,”Kamogelo says. When he’s not writing he’s often tinkling on a different
kind of keyboard– he’s also a keen pianist. DEFYING EXPECTATIONS Despite his accomplishments, Kamogelo says people in his community
still aren’t used to being around a blind person. “People aren’t used to people who are blind. It’s surprising
even here in my community. When I go out to buy bread I know everyone will be
looking at me. I’ve gotten used to it,” he says. “But I actually think my disability is advantageous because
people see me writing books along with everything else I do,and they’re amazed
that I’m able to do it.” FAMILY MATTERS Growing up with a sighted twin brother wasn’t easy. And it
wasn’t easy for Kamogelo’s brother Edwin either. Edwin used to question why his
brother was blind and he wasn’t, he recalls. “I got no answers but
the older I got I realised that it was God’s doing and only He knows why.” Kamogelo endured his share of being bullied, but he was
often the one who’d stand up for both of them, Edwin says. Now, as a young
adult, Kamogelo lives away from his family, who stay in Daveyton in the
Ekurhuleni municipality of Gauteng. “It’s hard for them
that I’m not around, but family sometimes stagnates your growth,” the author
says. “I also knew that moving to Pretoria was going to push me out of my
comfort zone,” he explains. Being blind has its advantages, he tells us. “I don’t have to see the nonsense that everybody sees,” he
says with a laugh. NO LIMITS Working as a blind writer and playwright isn’t cheap. Kamogelo’s
government aid grant is barely enough to cover his needs as well as his publishing
and stage production costs, such as his laptop.Undeterred, Kamogelo is
propelled by his desire to constantly develop himself. “I’ve actually realised that my disability is advantageous
because whenever I do something people are always keen to be part of it. I
don’t want to be a burden, nor do I want people to support me out of pity, but
I want to show people that the sky’s not the limit.” “My friends who are blind are afraid of approaching girls
who aren’t blind, but I’ve moved on from that fear.” He steadfastly holds true
to his mantra: “The true disability is a bad attitude.” 