It’s nothing short of a
miracle that all three people in the respective cars survived, Venessa de Jager
(44) tells YOU on the phone. She was the first eyewitness
on the scene when a car travelling on the R50 near Pretoria hit a buffalo. “I don’t wish something like
this on anyone,” Sumari Pieterse (43), whose car hit the buffalo, tells us over
the phone from Pretoria. “I can’t believe my head didn’t split open,” she adds. “But I’m okay. I didn’t
break any bones and there’s no bleeding,” she says. She’d just returned from a
follow-up examination at the Steve Biko Academic Hospital where personnel were
also excellent on the night of the accident, she says. “After a car crash, you’re
always scared and shocked. But they were gentle with me and spoke to me
kindly.” Sumari hadn’t realised what
had happened until her uncle Johan Pieterse sent her pictures from the scene.
That’s the first time she realised she’d hit a buffalo. “I can’t recall what
happened during the accident,” Sumari says. “I just know the road was dark
because there were no streetlights. People need to be really careful there,”
she warns.  Judging by the car wreck, it
seems impossible that she got out of there alive, though paramedics had to
remove her through the car’s back door. “I could feel my head and
eye were hurt. I was worried about brain injury and asked God to rather take me
on the spot if that’s the case. But the Lord kept me calm, though my body went
into shock.” Venessa came upon the
accident – in which two other cars had also been involved – shortly after 2am
on the morning of Saturday 2 November. She ran straight to Sumari’s green
Hyundai Accent because she thought she might be dead. “Where does it hurt? What’s
your name?” asked Venessa, chair of the local community policing forum. But Sumari didn’t move.
Venessa waited at the scene for four hours until the ambulances had left and
the buffalo – presumably from a nearby nature reserve – had been removed from
the road so nobody else ran into it.  