A man who
was kidnapped from hospital as a newborn baby has been found 55 years after he
went missing. According
to Chicago’s WGN TV station, which participated in the search for baby Paul Fronczak,
he is living in Michigan in the US under a different name. It was a
captivating story in 1964, writes Ben Bradley of WGN. “One day
after Chester and Dora Fronczak became the proud parents of the baby boy, a
woman wearing white and appearing to be a nurse entered Dora Fronczak’s
[Michael Reese Hospital] room and said she would take the baby to see the
doctor. She never returned,” Ben continues. Two years
after a vigorous search by the FBI, local police and even postal services, a
boy who was thought to be Paul was found abandoned outside a New Jersey shop
and reunited with the Fronczaks. His
identity was never scientifically confirmed as this happened decades before DNA
testing. According
to Las Vegas Review Journal, Paul found articles about the kidnapping in his
home when he was 10 years old and his parents “forbade him from mentioning it
again”. He didn’t
talk about it, but there was always the idea at the back of his mind that he
might not be the real Paul. But the
birth of his daughter in 2009 made him reconsider. “When my
daughter was born and the doctor asked for my medical history, I spouted off
like I always do . . .  And then I
started thinking as the words were coming out, ‘Is this really my medical
history? Am I doing an injustice to my daughter,’” Las Vegas Review Journal
quotes Paul. Three years
later, the publication adds, he bought an over-the-counter DNA testing kit and
convinced his parents to provide swabs. The results
came back negative: Paul was not the real Paul Fronczak. The Daily
Mail reports that Paul hired a genetic genealogist to trace his family in 2015
and learnt that his birth name was Jack Rosenthal. “The only
reason I started this journey was to find my parents' kidnapped son, Paul,” he
told the Daily Mail. Investigations
into finding the real Paul were reopened and WGN says its investigative
journalists followed several leads that took them to a small town in Michigan. “That’s
where we found the man living under a different name. At his request, we are
not identifying him because he was a crime victim, The man was aware of the
evidence that concluded he was the baby abducted from a Chicago hospital more
than a half-century ago. He apparently learnt about it several months ago and
was still coming to grips with the ramifications.” The man
hasn’t confirmed his plans to meet his biological mother Dora, and he won’t get
the opportunity to meet his father Chester because he died a few years ago. Sources:
WGN-TV, Las Vegas Review-Journal, Daily Mail 