The Freeway Recovery Centre, a drug and alcohol rehabilitation centre in Retreat, has taken the numerous rejections from corporate social investors as a learning curve. Now it is looking to incorporate the rehabilitation of the entire family into the recovery journey of each addict in the programme. Struggling to find funding, the non-profit organisation has fallen on hard times since its inception two years ago (“Safe-haven risks eviction, need funds”, People’s Post, 3 September) and is facing eviction next month. Greg Craig, director of the centre and former addict, explains that to find a new space for people in the programme – and funds – it has proven to be beneficial to include the entire family. “Our biggest thing for 2020 is trying to raise the capital for the house. What has been happening for us is that when we speak to organisations and companies, they tell us that we do not fit their criteria. They say they don’t fund recovery.” The advice from these companies has forced the organisation to go back to the drawing board. “Through recovery, we know that addiction affects 16 other people in the addict’s life. It has a ripple effect in the community. It affects the partner, the children and many more. If the addict is the breadwinner then this affects the family – where do they get food? How do they support themselves?” He adds: “Now we’re working with various organisations who deal with family care. So we won’t only take the addict through the recovery process, we take the family through the recovery process as well.” The organisation will be getting its paperwork ready to comply with the City’s by-laws and to establish a modern rehabilitation and training facility. This will include an early childhood development centre and other facilities. The idea is to help people become self-reliant by offering training and providing rehabilitation to help them become productive members of society. The estimated time of completion is set for October next year, should the centre acquire the necessary funding and approvals.V To assist Freeway Recovery Centre, call 021 712 1794, email toto@freewayrecovery.org or visit the centre at 18 Crest Way, Retreat.