Ouagadougou – They are cheap, made from components
that are easily obtained – and murderously effective. Security experts say that in the arsenal of
jihadist groups, whose insurgency is shaking the Sahel state of Burkina Faso,
the improvised explosive device (IED) is one of the deadliest weapons. "With 15 000-20 000 CFA francs ($25-$34), you've
got an IED that can destroy something worth a thousand times more," a
security source said. "It's a poor man's weapon in an asymmetrical
war." Thousands of civilians and soldiers have died in
violence across the Sahel, which began when armed Islamists revolted in
northern Mali in 2012. The conflict has since spread to neighbouring
Burkina Faso as well as Niger, two of the world's poorest and most fragile
countries. "IEDs appeared in (Burkina Faso) in mid-2018.
Since then, we have recorded 33 attacks with IEDs, claiming 133 lives,"
said Italian researcher Roberto Sollazzo. Brothers in arms: African and French armies join forces in fight against jihadism in the Sahel In the border zone between Mali, Burkina Faso and Niger, French and Burkinabe soldiers march in step. Named Bourgou IV, their mission was the first official joint ground operation between the French army and the so-called G5 Sahel force, which poo... Hidden in plastic to thwart metal detectors, packed
with nails for a shrapnel effect, the IED is increasingly used in roadside
ambushes. On November 6, an attack on a convoy of Canadian
mining company Semafo killed 38 people. The IED blew up a military escort
vehicle before jihadist forces emerged from behind cover to machine-gun the
buses. Motorbike parts "The point of an IED is that it has to be made
cheaply, using locally available materials," Sollazzo said. "Burkina is a nation of mopeds," he said,
referring to a light motorcycle also known as a mobylette. "There are 300 000 of them in the country. So
many components of an IED can be taken from them without attracting the
attention of the security forces." Mopeds are cannibalised for their rubber tyres,
which are used in parts of a simple pressure-plate switch that activates the
bomb when a vehicle passes over it, and for their batteries, which ignite the
detonator. For fuses and detonators, the jihadists go to the
same suppliers as artisanal gold-diggers who buy the materials to blast rocks
at mining sites. "A box of 166 detonators costs 600 000 CFA
francs, which is 3 500 CFA francs for one detonator. It's 300 000 CFA for 250
metres of fuse wire. When you buy this stuff, nobody asks any questions,"
Sollazzo said. "There's trafficking from Ghana for the
gold-diggers. They can buy a package of dynamite, fuse and detonator for 5 000
CFA francs." Dynamite or fertiliser bomb Such kits are enough for the miners, who lack the
means to buy in bulk. "But what interests the jihadists most is the
detonator," the security expert said. The non-profit International Crisis Group (ICG)
warned in a report in November that jihadist groups are taking a growing
interest in artisanal mines as a "new source of finance, even a recruiting
ground", with potential for training in the handling of explosive
materials. Apart from dynamite, IEDs may also use a mix of
ammonium nitrate – a chemical found in fertiliser that is sold in Burkina Faso
for 20 000 CFA francs for a 50kg bag – and fuel oil, which again is scavenged from
mopeds. Sollazzo says that "the most complicated"
aspect for bomb makers is getting the IED to explode. "Mostly it's done with wire and a manual
trigger," he said, while the security expert said Chinese-made
remote-control devices were emerging that appear to have been brought in from
neighbouring Mali. 