AMIDST the daunting prospect of diminishing water supplies available for consumption, Nelson Mandela Bay has a massive problem with thousands of water leaks not being fixed. This whilst dams providing water to the metro are at dangerously low levels. In Uitenhage, a group of residents from Ward 51, who had no involvement in political affairs, raised their concerns about the poor service delivery on water repairs. Millions of litres of   water, daily run down drains, owing to water leaks that have been reported, but not fixed. Some of these leaks were reported six months ago. Marius Roach from the Ward 51 office, keeps track of all the water leaks reported at the office. Paper trail, on these leaks are kept up to date, with some of the water leaks being reported twenty times already and are still not being fixed. “Frustrated residents, using abusive language, blame us for the water leaks not being fixed. We are not responsible for the fixing of water leaks. Our jurisdiction allows only for reporting it. And that we do thoroughly,” said Roach. Some of the worst water leak cases reported to the municipality through the Ward 51 office include: 59 Mimosa Drive (reported 20 times since 01/07/2019); c/o Alberti Circle & Innes street (reported 16 times since 04/07/2019); c/o Church Street & Cannon Street (reported   12 times since 29/08/2019); c/o Angelier Crescent & Mimosa Drive reported 11 times since 15/08/2019). Ivan Ingram, a Ward 51 committee member, said: “In Dönges Street there is a water leak which is flowing at a rate of one litre every four seconds. It was reported on November 12. Imagine the daily total loss of water due to leaks in Uitenhage alone.” The flowing rate of the Donges Street leak counted to date since it was reported amounts to 864 000 litres of water being wasted. Councillor Pieter Terblanche from Ward 51 said, “According to the municipality’s water operations regulations it stated that ‘the municipality commits to attend to all leaking water pipes and water meters within 12 hours of the leak being reported. And all underground leaks will be attended to within 12 hours. “This is definitely not happening. Thus the municipality is not adhering to its own regulations, which makes them the guilty party in the devastating waterless future the metro’s residents are facing,” said Terblanche. According to Terblanche, what is more of a concern is that senior officials from the directorate of water and sanitation, are blatantly ignoring and even deleting e-mails sent with regard to serious water leak matters. They also declined meetings requested with regard to address the serious state of water leaks in Uitenhage. “We have e-mail tracking proof of this. They read and delete, some e-mails are deleted without being read. Why? There are serious water leaks and these officials in charge ignore them.”