Mogadishu – Al-Shabaab Islamist militants have
claimed responsibility for Saturday's massive car bomb in the Somali capital
Mogadishu that killed 81 people, including two Turkish citizens. The attack hit a busy checkpoint in the southwest
of the city, leaving vehicles charred and twisted at a crossroads in the
deadliest assault in two years in the Horn of Africa country. Scores more were wounded in an area clogged with
traffic because of the security checkpoint and a tax office collecting fees
from trucks and buses. "...the mujahideen carried (out) an attack...
targeting a convoy of Turkish mercenaries and apostate militia who were
escorting them," Al-Shabaab spokesperson Sheik Ali Mohamud Rage said in an
audio message. Among the dead were 16 students from the private
Banadir university, whose bus was passing through the crossroads as the bomb
detonated. Truck bomb in Mogadishu, Somalia capital kills at least 79 Children were among the wounded. Also among them were several university students who had been travelling in a bus. Apologised to civilian victims Mogadishu is regularly hit by attacks by
Al-Shabaab, which has fought for more than a decade to topple the Somali
government. For the first time, Al-Shabaab apologised to the
civilian victims of the attack, which it justified as necessary in the fight
against the Somali state and its foreign backers. "We are very sorry about the casualty that was
inflicted on our Somali Muslim society, and we are extending our condolences to
the Muslims who have lost their lives and or (were) wounded and or had their
property destroyed." Al-Shabaab do not usually claim attacks that cause
such high casualty rates among the civilian population, for fear of losing the
support they still enjoy with some Somalis. The message also accused Turkey of trying to
control Somalia's resources. Turkey is a major donor and investor in Somalia,
especially in humanitarian aid and reconstruction. Turkish companies manage Mogadishu's
port and airport. "The Turks are our enemies and as we have said
before, we will not stop fighting until they withdraw from our lands," the
spokesperson said. US air strikes The death toll increased to 81 on Monday, after two
victims died from their wounds, the Somali information ministry said. One of the new fatalities was among the injured who
had been evacuated to Turkey via a Turkish military plane on Sunday. Saturday's attack was the biggest to hit Somalia
since a truck exploded in 2017 near a fuel tanker in Mogadishu, creating a
fireball that killed over 500 people. In 2010, Al-Shabaab declared its allegiance to
Al-Qaeda. But its fighters fled positions they once held in the capital
Mogadishu, and have since lost many strongholds. They retain control of large rural swathes of the
country and continue to wage a guerrilla war against the authorities, managing
to inflict bloody attacks at home and abroad. The United States military said on Sunday it had
killed four "terrorists" in three airstrikes targeting Al-Shabaab. US Africa Command (AFRICOM) said two militants were
killed and two vehicles destroyed in Qunyo Barrow, while two more militants
were killed in Caliyoow Barrow. The US regularly carries out airstrikes in Somalia,
though the frequency of such operations has risen sharply this year. In an April statement, AFRICOM said it had killed
more than 800 people in 110 strikes in Somalia since April 2017. 