A group of 10 women from ward 75 have completed a hairdressing course aimed at empowering themselves and cutting down on unemployment. “As the ward councillor, I had the honour and privilege to afford 10 young ladies from ward 75 the opportunity to attend a ‘Business in a Box’ hairdressing course during the month of November. This was part of the ward allocation budget for the 2019/2020 budget year,” says ward 75 councillor, Joan Woodman. The women are aged between 19 and 35 and were randomly selected from a database. On completion of the course they will receive a starter kit to start their own mobile styling businesses. This is the second initiative run by Woodman in the ward (“Cutting down on unemployment, People’s Post, 27 March 2018). “This is a business in a box that empowers the participants to start their own business. This was done in 2018 and now in 2019, the fruits thereof encouraged me to do so again,” says Woodman. “Hairdressing is something that is much needed every day and provides (the women with) sustainable income and can be done door-to-door.” The course was facilitated by the Deo-Favente Hair and Beauty Skills Centre and covered the basics of hairdressing, an overview of hair salon etiquette, the anatomy of hair, wash basin; shampooing and washing techniques, treatments, colouring, relaxer preparation; application and after care. The course also covered blow dry techniques and after care, flat iron techniques, natural hair grooming, plaiting of hair, hair extensions, bantu knots and curls, natural curls and afros, basic barber hair cutting, basic pedicure and manicure treatments and basic business and life skills. The 10-day course started on Tuesday 19 November with daily sessions from 08:00 to 17:00. The women graduated at a ceremony at the subcouncil chambers in Lentegeur on Friday 6 December. The women each received a starter kit which included scissors, brushes and combs, and a hairdryer. Woodman says ward allocation budget has been set aside for youth development in 2021 but the course has not yet been determined.