Banjul
– Thousands of protesters took to the streets in Gambia's capital Banjul on
Monday demanding that President Adama Barrow respect his pledge to quit after
three years in office. The president, a relative unknown
at the time, defeated former autocrat Yahya Jammeh in elections in the tiny
West African state in 2016. He promised to rule for three
years before stepping down, but he has since said he will govern until 2021,
serving a full presidential term. On Monday, some 10 000 Gambians
of all ages marched in the capital in protest at the U-turn, chanting
"Three years, three years!" to the rhythm of Bob Marley music. AFP was unable to independently
confirm the figures. According to the founding charter
of Barrow's ruling coalition, the president was meant to lead a provisional
government for three years and then call elections, and not stand. However in March, Barrow said
"we will go to the elections in 2021 and I will hand over power with
dignity to whoever wins," according to local press. January 19 deadline At
the end of September, part of Barrow's coalition agreed to support a five-year
term. But
two parties have rejected the move, including the United Democratic Party,
which is Gambia's largest party. Protest organisers on Monday sent
Barrow a memorandum reminding him of his commitments and gave him until January
19 – the three-year anniversary of his swearing-in – to step down. The protests were organised by
the movement "Operation Three Years Jotna", which means
"operation three years enough" in a hybrid between English and the
Wolof language. It was founded this year by Musa
Kaira, a Gambian businessman living in the United States. Abdou Njie, the president of
Operation Three Years Jotna, told AFP that promises must be kept. "As Gambian citizens, we are
ready for everything," he said. However, Amie Bojang Sissoho, a spokesperson
for Barrow, said the president was elected for five years. "They have the right to
demonstrate, they have demonstrated and that's all," she said. 