His office on the sixth floor of the provincial legislature
building in Kimberley is strikingly unremarkable. There are no portraits of the
new premier on the wall and nothing flash or fancy about the place – the desk,
strewn with documents and files, is like every other hard-working person’s
space. And this is the way Northern Cape premier Zamani Saul wants it. He’s here to do a job, not splash cash around. There will be
no unnecessary red carpet events on his watch, no luxury vehicles for him and
his officials and no credit card splurges. His predecessor, Sylvia Lucas, used
her state credit card to buy R50 000 worth of fast food during her first
10 weeks in office but Saul is cut from a different cloth. And it’s been
getting him plenty of attention. Ever since the 47-year-old was appointed leader of the
country’s largest and poorest province, he has made it clear he’s here to get
the job done, not feather his own nest. His administration will be cutting back
on all unnecessary expenditure and Saul is leading by example. He brings his
own lunch to work, there will be no more luxury five-star hotel stays for him
and his administration and when he travels he shops around for deals. “I’m going to Tanzania next week and I’m using Mango, not
SAA,” he says. And he doesn’t need police guards, he adds. In his 11 years
as the ANC’s provincial leader he’s never had a death threat and with police in
the province stretched thin already, why should he commandeer a valuable resource? The Northern Cape has the highest rate of unemployed young
people and 54% of households are poverty-stricken, with almost 500 000 social
grant beneficiaries. “I can tell you now, you’re in the poorest province,” Saul
says. He has bold plans to get his province on track by pushing
every available cent towards improving the lives of his people. First on the
agenda was radical cost-cutting measures for government officials: no longer
will they live the high life while their constituents scrape by. He put his money where his mouth was from day one, saving R1
million on the event to mark his state of the province address – there was no
red carpet, no fancy décor and the 3 000 guests were served pre-packed food. “I don’t care what the ministerial handbook says,” Saul
says. “We are dedicating every cent to improving lives.” There’s plenty that keeps the premier awake at night. For
instance, construction on a new mental health hospital began in 2007 and was meant
to open in 2009 at a cost of R300m. But that project got “messed up”, with a
cost overrun of R1,3 billion and only opened in September – a full decade
behind schedule. “We could have built at least three more hospitals with that
money,” Saul laments. “That’s reality.” Despite all this, he remains hopeful about the challenges
facing his province and the country. “We can make a major dent, we just need to
be focused.” Saul is aware that some people are sceptical about his
promises and it’s understandable, he says, given the trust deficit between
politicians and communities. But he’s quick to add that he’s an old hand at
cost-cutting. “I got R1m to buy a car as [the ANC] provincial secretary,
but I used half of it and bought a second-hand car. Because I wasn’t the
premier, no one said anything.” Now that he is premier the headlines are coming – such as
when he used the budget for luxury cars for himself and his MECs to buy 27
ambulances instead. The province has also adopted a zero-tolerance approach to
corruption. “If any one of us is caught with our fingers in the cookie
jar, we should not expect the ANC to protect us.” He still believes in the ANC even though the party is
riddled with infighting. But, he adds, this isn’t a new phenomenon as the
organisation had factional battles since its formation. “And every time we had leadership that could rise to the
occasion. But if the secretary- general [Ace Magashule] and the president
continue to speak past each other, South Africans will doubt the capability of
this leadership.” What the ANC needs are leaders that look at the bigger
picture and put their own ambitions on the back burner. “Until then we’re going to continue as a weak organisation
and a state that is at war with itself. And that scares the hell out of me.” High on Saul’s agenda is growing the economy, creating employment
and investing in infrastructure. He also has plans to develop his province, which
includes setting up Wi-Fi hotspots for greater internet access and introducing
robotics and coding at schools. Saul grew up without any luxury in his life. He was raised
by his single mom, Nodayephi, in an informal settlement in Petrusville in the
Karoo. His dad, Msitheli, was killed when Saul was just six months old. “He was working for a road construction company in Mooi
River in KwaZulu-Natal when apparently someone came and asked ‘who is
Msitheli?’ and he slaughtered him like a beast,” he says. The family still don’t know why his father’s life was taken
and his killer was never found. As Saul grew up, his mom would wake him at 4am
to prepare for school and walked him to the school gate every day. “We always used to be first to arrive – we were there when
the caretaker got there to unlock the gate,” he recalls. His sister recently asked his mom why she insisted on
walking  them to school. “She said, ‘I never wanted my children to be like me. I told
myself that what apartheid succeeded in doing to me, it won’t succeed with my
children’.” Saul says neither of his parents went to school and “were
functionally illiterate”. His mom made a living brewing and selling traditional
beer, which often got her in trouble with the authorities. “In the early hours of the morning police would come to raid
our home and arrest her,” Saul says. “She’d go to prison, come back and do it
again to put food on the table. She was a fighter.” Saul was 14 when he became an activist and a member of the
student representative body at his high school and his political education
continued when he went to study law at the University of the Western Cape. He
has a doctorate in law and jurisprudence and is now busy with his doctorate of
philosophy in multidisciplinary studies. Since taking office, life has been hectic, he admits. “On
Saturdays, if I don’t have a political programme, I’m sleeping.” The father of six also enjoys watching movies, but “my biggest
addiction is reading”. Saul has three kids from a previous relationship – Amanda
(22), Sindi (20) and Emeka (19) – and three younger children with his wife,
Tapsy (47): daughter Kgopi (11), and sons Dag (8) and G’zinn (4). Tapsy, a senior manager at the department of social
development, has been his rock, Saul says. “My wife is there to close all the loopholes. She knows the
Zamani who’s not a premier, which is good.” When the family has downtime they love to visit his hometown
to “catch a breather”. Wherever he goes people approach him for selfies, Saul
says with a chuckle – not because he’s the premier, he adds, but because of his
resemblance to the singer Seal. “Even when I was in Brazil I encountered that.” And he always obliges. After all, he is a man of the people. 