Abaqulusi Municipality speaker Michael Khumalo, an IFP member, was arrested at his office in Vryheid, KwaZulu-Natal, on Thursday following allegations by members of the ANC that Khumalo stole a generator out off a municipal fire engine in 2017 and kept it at his home for the past two years for his personal use, Vryheid Herald reports. According to that publication, Khumalo claimed he was merely storing the generator after it was used for a road show in his ward. ANC members, however, reportedly allege that staff had confided in them that Khumalo had instructed them to transport the generator to his home for a family funeral, and he kept it for his private use. Members of the Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU) reportedly seized the generator from Khumalo's homestead on November 22. Khumalo, in turn, reported the generator stolen at the Gluckstadt police station the next day, reportedly saying the officers who raided his home had not made contact with him, the local police, or the municipality, to explain why they had taken the generator. Khumalo told the Vryheid Herald he knew police were planning to arrest him on Thursday and accused the ANC of using SAPS to "fight political battles against the IFP leadership at AbaQulusi". Khumalo reportedly appeared briefly before the Vryheid Magistrate's Court on Thursday afternoon and was released on bail. READ: ANC finds members guilty of 'wrongfully' marching on KZN offices, gives them suspended sentences This is not the first time Khumalo had clashed with ANC members in the council. In August last year, the ANC put forward a motion to remove Khumalo as speaker of the AbaQulusi council, The Citizen reported. ANC whip Maria Mabaso reportedly called Khumalo "a dictator" and explained the reason for the motion to have him removed was that he had "arrogantly" refused the councillors' request to host a council meeting on two different occasions. Khumalo survived the motion by two votes. In September this year, a DA proportional list councillor was arrested for armed robbery in Hillbrow, Johannesburg, News24 reported. Police found two pistols, ammunition, an unknown amount of cash and numerous DA shirts in the boot of the man's car. Employees of a nearby Pep store told police the councillor and his accomplices had robbed their store. In July this year, News24 reported that a Nelson Mandela Bay ward councillor from the ANC, Bongo Nombiba, was jailed for five years after being found guilty of fraud and money laundering in the Port Elizabeth Commercial Crimes Court last year. Compiled by Riaan Grobler