YOUTH organisation Imfundo Yethu Foundation held a women’s soccer tournament in Ntembisweni near Greytown recently. The Imfundo Yethu Foundation is a youth-owned, non-profit community organisation that operates under Umvoti Municipality with an ambition to bring change and integration in society. The foundation dedicated themselves to contribute towards 16 Days of Activism by introducing a women’s soccer tournament in the community of Entembisweni. A spokesperson for the organisation, Mxolisi Kunene, said: “It is very rare in most rural areas to find this kind of sport [women’s soccer] as the society still has the belief that soccer is a sport that is only played by men. “On November 30, Imfundo Yethu Foundation hosted a ladies’ soccer tournament at Candabuthule Sports Field where we gave away beautiful prizes to the winners. “We managed to give away new soccer kits, a trophy, gold medals, and cash prizes to the champions of the tournament. “The team that came second received silver medals and a cash prize while the best player of the tournament and top goal scorer received trophies.” Kunene said the main aim of the tournament was to promote gender equality in society while fighting against gender-based violence and empower women in sports, especially in those sports that are predominantly played by men. “We want to see women in society believing in themselves without expecting [men] to make the decisions all the time. “We would like to thank Sakhumnotho Development Services for their support and sponsorship. “Our vision is to see this community being free from gender-based violence, drugs and alcohol abuse, crime and killing of other people. “We want to see positive change in the community, and in that vein we will become a developing society as other companies will be able to invest in our economy and local businesses,” Kunene said. He added that the organisation cares for the youth and people of the community of Entembisweni and they recently held a boys’ soccer tournament. “Imfundo Yethu Foundation already has plans and arrangements at hand for the year 2020 as we run a programme that involves giving school shoes to needy children in local primary schools. “This programme is called ‘Your Child Is My Child’ and it takes place at the beginning of the year,” he said.