South
Africans can expect a warm and cloudy Tuesday across much of the country,
according to the South African Weather Service. Warnings Gale force south-westerly winds
of 62km/h with gusts in excess of 88km/h are expected along the coast between
Cannon Rocks and St Lucia. Watches Severe thunderstorms are expected
over the Uthukela, Umgungundlovu and Harry Gwala district municipalities in
KwaZulu-Natal. Heavy rain is expected in places
over the eastern parts of the Eastern Cape, as well as Ugu and Ethekwini
district municipalities in KwaZulu-Natal. The
weather in your region Gauteng will be
fine and hot but very hot in the north becoming partly cloudy with isolated
late afternoon showers and thundershowers. The expected UVB sunburn index is
high. Mpumalanga will be
partly cloudy and warm to hot but very hot on the Lowveld, with isolated
showers and thundershowers but scattered in the southern parts. Limpopo will be
partly cloudy and hot to very hot with isolated showers and thundershowers in
the western and southern parts. The North West will
be fine in the east at first, otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and hot to
very hot with isolated showers and thundershowers. The Free State will
be fine in the east at first, otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and warm to
hot with isolated showers and thundershowers but scattered in the south-east. The Northern Cape will
be fine in the west at first, otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and warm to
hot with isolated thundershowers in the east but cloudy and cool in the
south-west in the morning. The wind along the coast will be strong southerly to
south-easterly. The Western Cape will
be warm over the interior of the West Coast District, otherwise, cloudy and
cool with light rain in the south-west and southern coastal areas in the
morning clearing in the west and northern interior from the afternoon. The wind
along the coast will be fresh to strong south-westerly to southerly along the
south coast, otherwise strong southerly to south-easterly. The expected UVB
sunburn index is high. The western half of the Eastern Cape will
be cloudy and cool with isolated showers and rain in the east but scattered in
the south. The wind along the coast will be strong south-westerly, reaching
near gale force until midday. The eastern half of the Eastern
Cape will be cloudy and cool with scattered showers and thundershowers but
widespread in the east. The wind along the coast will be strong south-westerly,
reaching gale force from late afternoon. KwaZulu-Natal will
be partly cloudy and warm to hot but very hot in the north. It will become
cloudy in the afternoon with scattered showers and thundershowers but
widespread in the south-west. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong
north-easterly north of Durban at first, otherwise, fresh to strong
south-westerly, reaching near gale force at times. The expected UVB sunburn
index is high.   - Compiled by Ethan Van Diemen Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days 