On Tuesday, the circuit
high court in Harrismith found missing three-year-old Liam Nortjé’s father
guilty of murdering the boy. The ruling comes
despite the fact that Liam’s body was never found since his father abducted him
two years ago. “I’m grateful. I can’t
believe it’s all over – we worked hard and started with nothing,” state
prosecutor Advocate Amanda Bester, from Bloemfontein, told YOU. She’d been
working non-stop to secure this murder conviction. “Tomorrow [Wednesday],
we’ll submit three impact reports and then we’ll work around loadshedding to
get him sentenced on Thursday,” she adds. Liam’s father, Nantes
Nortjé (48), will hear his fate tomorrow [Thursday]. Judge Corné van Zyl
ruled that Nantes had murdered Liam after kidnapping the boy in late November
2017. Nantes had visited Liam in Kestell in the Free State, drove off with the
boy and later called his estranged wife, Cheinelle (42), to tell her that she’d
never see their son again. Nantes was also found
guilty on two charges of aggravated assault and one of ordinary assault on
Cheinelle and their two daughters. The assaults happened in the time before
Liam’s disappearance. YOU has reported on
this case in the past.  Previously, Cheinelle
told YOU that Nantes had left behind a scorched lock of Liam’s blond hair and a
note, saying: “Good luck with your life without me and Liam.” Despite all indications
to the contrary and the court judgment, Cheinelle had been living in the hope
that her son is still alive. “I have hope every day.
But he’d planned everything – even the lock of hair he left behind. He’d
planned every last detail,” she told YOU shortly before Nantes’ trial started
in August. Nantes was arrested in
July last year in a township in Ladysmith, KwaZulu-Natal. He’d maintained ever
since that Liam is alive and in the care of a “childless couple”. But there’d
been no evidence or information to suggest that this was true. The extensive, non-stop
police search for Liam has been fruitless. Every lead was followed, every
secret phone call from prison investigated. This had proven to be
the basis of the judge’s ruling, Amanda says. “It’s torture that
won’t ever stop. We’ll always keep looking for Liam,” she adds. She says the state’s
psychiatric evaluation of Nantes also counted heavily in the prosecution’s
favour. “The psychiatrist
Professor PJ Pretorius diagnosed Nantes as a psychopath and said he’s extremely
manipulative. He’d done it [committed murder] to punish his estranged wife.” She says Nantes told
local media he’s “disappointed” that YOU’s sister publication, Huisgenoot,
published a telephone conversation with him shortly before the trial started.
Nantes had called the Huisgenoot reporter from prison in Harrismith. During the phone conversation
the reporter asked Nantes if he was willing to serve a life sentence for a
“crime he didn’t commit”, given that he’d claimed Liam was still alive. He answered without
hesitation. “For my child? I’d die for my child – any of my children. I’d go to
jail if it meant protecting them from all the evil [in the world]. It grieves
me. I had a good wife but she made her bed, now she must sleep in it. “What’s left? I have
nothing left to lose,” he said. Cheinelle, who’d been
in court with her daughters when Nantes was found guilty, couldn’t be reached
for comment. “We’re asking for a
life sentence,” Amanda says. “I can’t imagine he’ll get less than that.” 