Reconciliation in South Africa can only be achieved once corruption and political divisions are eradicated, President Cyril Ramaphosa has said. Announcing that he will be travel to Bergville in KwaZulu-Natal to observe the Day of Reconciliation on Monday, he said SA had "much further to go". Ramaphosa quoted the 2019 SA Reconciliation Barometer Survey 2019, which is published by the Institute for Justice and Reconciliation. He said the report indicated that the vast majority of South Africans feel the country still needs reconciliation. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. WATCH | No leave for Eskom staff, says Ramaphosa as he promises it won't be a dark Christmas President Cyril Ramaphosa announced on Wednesday that Eskom executives' leave would be cancelled so that the utility can fulfil its promise to reduce the frequency of load shedding. "According to the survey, most respondents agree that reconciliation is impossible as long as corruption continues, political parties sow division, those who were affected by apartheid continue to be poor, gender-based violence remains, we continue to use racial categories to measure transformation, and racism in our society remains unaddressed." He said reconciliation was about political and economic transformation. "We must address the unfinished business of our democratic transition. We must close the festering wound of inequality that exists between our people. We must forge ahead with land reform and social development." Ramaphosa said work had to be done to unlock investment and reduce the cost of doing business. "It is about the urgent measures we need to take to ensure a reliable supply of electricity to homes and businesses. It is about ensuring that our scarce water resources are preserved and equally available to all." He said inequalities in access to health care had to be reduced. "We need to improve the quality of education in township and rural schools in particular and ensure that there is universal attendance in early childhood development centre." Ramaphosa also lauded the string of international achievements from the Rugby World Cup victory in Japan to Miss South Africa Zozibini Tunzi crowned Miss Universe. "South Africans of all races took to the streets in an outpouring of national pride."