Jenni Evans Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A FlySafair flight had to circle Robben Island for almost two hours on Thursday to burn off fuel so it could land safely when a technical error was detected shortly after take-off, the company said. In a statement released on its Twitter account, the low-cost airline said flight FA102 left Cape Town for Johannesburg at 17:32, but quickly realised that there may be a technical issue with an aircraft system. As a precaution, the crew decided to return to Cape Town to investigate the issue. "Unfortunately, the aircraft was in excess of the maximum landing weight permitted for a Boeing 737-400, so the crew were forced to maintain a holding pattern above Robben Island to burn off excess fuel so as to be light enough to land safely," the statement said. "Boeing 737-400 aircraft cannot dump fuel." Spokesperson Kirby Gordan told News24 that an aircraft can take off heavier than they can safely land. He said this particular one was full of fuel, which meant it was too heavy to land immediately. 'FlySafair nearly killed us' He said the problem was a hydraulics system that has to do with fine control on one of the wing flaps and was "nothing as drastic as landing gear". Cape Town International Airport air traffic control was alerted, and after just under two hours, the passengers and crew landed safely again. Gordan said it was a normal landing, not an emergency landing, but "assistance" vehicles were on hand, in line with standard procedure. One passenger tweeted a different story, which FlySafair responded to: SAFAIR nearly killed us cause they decided to fly without their wing flap was not working! We hovered in the air for 1 hour 30 mins and then told we had to make an emergency landing. In Brace position we landed and a team of fire fighters. Their remedy was a sorry with only water pic.twitter.com/L6KUYnpx7v Only once in the air did crew get an indication of a possible issue and the team followed procedures to the letter. We'll have you on your way again shortly. Again, please accept our apologies. 2/2  The aircraft was taken to a bay where passengers had to disembark. They were then taken to another aircraft to start the trip to Johannesburg again. This means passengers waiting for flight FA103 from Johannesburg back to Cape Town will now depart at 23:50 and land at 02:05. The flight was scheduled to depart at 20:15 and land at 22:30. Passengers on this flight were invited to report to the ticket sales desk for a meal voucher for something to eat while they wait. FlySafair apologised for the incident and thanked passengers for their patience.  Queasy journalist takes last Tornado flight The BBC's Jonathan Beale got a ride in one of the RAF fighter jet's final flights. Mourners pay tribute to footballer Sala in Argentina Mourners pay tribute to Cardiff City striker Emiliano Sala in his hometown of Progreso, Argentina, three weeks after he was killed in a plane crash. Neighbors describe fear as plane strikes house Residents of a California neighborhood were preparing to watch the Super Bowl when they heard a huge explosion. They rushed outside to see that a plane had crashed into a home, setting it on fire. The crash killed five people. Probe underway after deadly California plane crash Officials are trying to establish why a small plane crashed into a home in Yorba Linda, California Sunday, killing the pilot and four people inside the home. British Airways plane repainted in retro livery for 100th anniversary A British Airways plane has been repainted in retro livery for the airline's centenary celebrations.

The Boeing 747 landed at London Heathrow on Monday sporting a British Overseas Airways Corporation (BOAC) design. Funeral in Argentina for Premiership football player Emiliano Sala Local hero is cremated in hometown Sheffield pensioner organises flypast to salute US airmen who saved his life The pensioner whose lifelong dedication to 10 American airmen who died when their plane crashed in front of him 75 years ago prompted a planned memorial flypast believes thousands of people will turn-out for the salute.
Tony Foulds was eight-years...   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.