Pelane Phakgadi Gauteng Premier David Makhura. (Mduduzi Ndzingi, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Gauteng Premier David Makhura has vowed not to leave allegations made at the Zondo commission of inquiry about irregular dealings between the provincial government and the controversial Bosasa company untested and has advised his provincial departments to review their business relationships with the company. He said that the allegations coming out of the commission were too serious to ignore and should be paid attention to. The Mail & Guardian reported that the controversial company – now known as African Global Operations (AGO) – benefitted from several deals with national and local government departments, including the Limpopo department of social development, the Gauteng department of education, the Northern Cape department of arts and culture and the national Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. Makhura said that in Gauteng he would ensure that those implicated and found to have done wrong would be brought to book. The premier made this announcement at his final State of the Province Address of his five-year term at the Alberton Civic Centre on Monday. READ: E-tolls will be the ANC's downfall in 2019 election - DA warns Makhura also revealed that during his term, his administration had created at least 30 000 jobs and attracted almost R200bn in foreign direct investments. He hailed his government for "strengthening the fight against corruption", and creating much-needed jobs. Ramaphosa working on e-tolls solution He also touched on the thorny e-tolls issue, and said that "there is clear recognition that urban tolling increases the cost of living and is therefore unsustainable". "Proceeding from this consensus, government teams are hard at work to find a solution to the e-tolls. President (Cyril) Ramaphosa has just reassured me again that the resolution of e-tolls matter is one of the issues that are receiving his urgent national attention," said the premier. More importantly, the Council advised the provincial government in how to deal with allegations of unethical business practices levelled against service providers such as KPMG, McKinsey and SAP.#GPSOPA19 Makhura also turned his attention to VBS-linked municipalities in Gauteng and said that he was awaiting the outcome of a forensic investigation into the matter instituted by the provincial treasury. He said that the report would eventually allow him to take "appropriate action against those responsible". Merafong and West Rand are the two municipalities that have done business with VBS Mutual Bank in Gauteng. The municipalities, along with 12 others in the country, deposited about R1.5bn into the now defunct mutual bank. READ MORE: Quality of life improving in Gauteng, crime a big concern – survey The premier has also asked the municipalities to lift restrictions on small businesses. "There are complaints from businesses and cooperatives that some of the by-laws and regulations impede the growth of township businesses. "I call upon all municipalities to urgently amend their regulations and by-laws so that they can facilitate and promote the growth of township businesses," Makhura said. This we have achieved only in the past four years. To strengthen good governance, Gauteng is the only province that has enlisted civil society partnership in the fight against corruption by setting up the Ethics Council as our own anti- corruption watchdog.#GPSOPA19 Makhura has also blamed rapid urbanisation and the high rate of migration to the province for the slow pace in the delivery of houses. "In response to this challenge, we have introduced mega human settlements projects aimed at bringing in private sector partners in the construction of new post-apartheid cities." The number of clean audits has increased from 56% in 2014 to 65% in 2018 (this includes all audited government entities and agencies have achieved clean audits, leaving them out seeks to understate the progress we are making in cleaning up government).#GPSOPA19 The premier said there were 31 "mega human settlements" planned for Gauteng in the next five years, and that 10 were already under construction. "These projects will contribute significantly to reducing the housing backlog," he said. ANALYSIS: In a way this is the end of Bosasa, says Adriaan Basson News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and Opinions Editor Alet Janse van Rensburg unpack the latest developments in the Bosasa scandal, after the company announced it was under voluntary liquidation. Watch. WATCH: Striking Bosasa workers didn't know about liquidation Workers employed by facilities management company Bosasa, now known as African Global Operations, staged a demonstration outside its Mogale City head office on Monday - minutes after the company announced its voluntary liquidation. Whistleblowers should still come forward says Hawks after Bosasa arrests ormer Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi, former correctional services CFO Patrick Gillingham, and Bosasa official Andries van Tonder, on Wednesday briefly appeared in the dock at the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court. WATCH: Agrizzi, van Tonder and Gillingham appear in dock The Hawks on Wednesday arrested six suspects on allegations of corruption, money laundering and fraud relating to Bosasa. A warrant of arrest has been issued for a seventh suspect. WATCH: 'Ja boetie...and R900k next week' – Zondo inquiry hears from Bosasa bag man Yet more explosive testimony before the Zondo Commission of inquiry into state capture on Tuesday has revealed the identity of a man who delivered cash to Bosasa, which was in turn used to pay bribes to government officials and ministers. 'I will kill you' - Bosasa operative to journalist News24 editor-in-chief Adriaan Basson told the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture that a public relations executive paid by Bosasa said she would "kill" him if he told anyone about a threatening phone call she had made to him. LISTEN: 'That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. LISTEN: That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. LISTEN: Bosasa bosses Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma [WITH SUBTITLES] In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. WATCH: 'Give me a tender' - sings satirical 'Elvis' on Bosasa scandal The much-talked about Bosasa scandal has gripped South Africa over the past week since former chief-operating officer Angelo Agrizzi blew the whistle on bribery and corruption. LISTEN: Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. WATCH: Agrizzi details unfair advantage given to Bosasa to secure 'one of the biggest' tenders Former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi is on the stand for the fifth day at the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry - Agrizzi to implicate more officials Former Bosasa chief operating officer Angelo Agrizzi will be back on the witness stand for a fifth day and more officials are expected to be implicated in his testimony. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry: Agrizzi continues his testimony, who will be implicated? Angelo Agrizzi has revealed more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Agrizzi claims he packed R50 000 a month for Minister Mokonyane Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi told the Zondo Commission that the company catered for ANC rallies and paid for the ruling party's birthday cake. Agrizzi was testifying about the relationship between Bosasa and Cabinet minister Nomvula Mokonyana WATCH: Agrizzi, Watson paid regular visits to Mokonyane's house, along with R50 000 #StateCaptureInquiry | Angelo Agrizzi continues to reveal more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Bosasa and #StateCapture | Here's what you need to know... Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson emerges as 'kingpin of bribes' Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson has emerged as the absolute kingpin in the Bosasa empire of bribes, intimidation and cold hard cash. WATCH: Former Bossasa COO unpacks the bribes Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi on Thursday detailed the money trail allegedly used for bribing state entities.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.