Jeanette Chabalala DA manifesto launch. (Pelane Phakgadi, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Democratic Alliance (DA) launched its manifesto in Johannesburg on Saturday and has set out plans which it believes will bring change to the lives of South Africans. READ: 'The ANC will not change' - DA punts jobs, governance at manifesto launch Around 20 000 party supporters gathered at Rand Stadium to hear party leader Mmusi Maimane outline the DA's election promises and policies. Here are some of the things that the party highlighted in its manifesto launch: Policy certainty 1. The DA says the first vital step in turning the economy around is to provide the private sector with a reason to invest in South Africa - policy certainty. This means it will give complete policy certainty to business through guaranteed private property rights that will be upheld for everyone in the country. It will also give policy certainty to business through the rejection of expropriation without compensation. Land 2. The party believes in land reform that grows jobs, expands ownership and the economy, and enables economic justice – it says this does not require expropriation or state ownership but a government capable of using existing provisions in the Constitution. READ: 'The ANC will not change' - DA punts jobs, governance at manifesto launch Jobs Act 3. The party says it would introduce a Jobs Act to serve as an economic stimulus shock. The act will make special incentive offers open to foreign and domestic investors who meet a minimum employment threshold. Employment corruption 4. In order to tackle employment corruption, the party says it will increase the transparency of the recruitment process by ensuring high-profile public sector jobs are properly advertised through a variety of media. It will also make a hotline available to report instances of employment corruption. Legislation against sexual exploitation 5. The DA will also introduce legislation to protect job-seekers, particularly women, who are vulnerable to coerced transactional sex requests. It says the legislation should codify sexual exploitation as a distinct form of corruption. Grade R subsidy 6. The party says in order to ensure that learners are appropriately prepared to enter the foundation phase of their schooling, it plans to implement a per-child Grade R subsidy from the state to all public schools. It will also allow fee-free access to Grade R at fee-free schools. The party will also develop a more formalised curriculum for Grade R teaching, based on a thoroughly researched understanding of the cognitive development required to prepare a child for success in Grade 1 and beyond. BEE 7. The DA rejects the approach to Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) as carried out by the ANC, which "has only served to enrich a politically connected elite and to dampen economic growth, at the cost of job creation". The party wants policies that spend tax wisely, a programme of real empowerment that makes the pot of economic growth bigger, and the share that all South Africans get, to be fairer. The party will approach BEE by 1) codifying specific metrics which will signify successful redress, 2) introducing social protection measures which provide for all currently disadvantaged South Africans regardless of their, or their families' exposure to past injustice. Corruption 8. The DA says it will manage risk posed to the stability and growth of the economy by rooting out corruption at Eskom and other state-owned enterprises, in order efficiently manage procurement and prevent irregular and wasteful expenditure. Rejecting NHI 9. The party says it will reject the ANC’s proposed National Health Insurance (NHI). The party says NHI presents an idea that could "sink South Africa financially". Instead the DA proposes its Health Plan, which will improve healthcare in South Africa without "threatening the financial health of South Africa". Crime 10. The DA also has plans to tackle crime in rural areas and a comprehensive plan to address rural safety challenges covered in the Safety section. The party says it will keep separate statistics on specific rural crime categories, including attacks and murders on farms and stock theft at station level. This will enable to identify the rural areas facing the most significant challenges and under-resourcing. It will also allow for the deployment of resources to those farming areas and rural communities worst affected by crime. To read the party's full manifesto, visit its website. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. South African elections set for May 8: president South Africa will go to polls on May 8, President Cyril Ramaphosa announces as he set out his stall for the election in a state-of-the-nation address focused on reviving the economy. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. WATCH: 'ANC is killing us' - DA unveils billboard listing names of Marikana, Life Esidimeni victims DA leaders and supporters marched on Wednesday to unveil a new giant billboard in Johannesburg. 'Our rail system has gone to the dogs' - DA protests at Prasa offices The Democratic Alliance held a picket outside the offices of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA) in Hatfield, Pretoria on Wednesday. Digitizing Africa's Creative Industries | Startup Battlefield Africa Obi Asika (Dragon Africa), Blinky Bill (Just a Band), Graeme Cumming (MultiChoice), Monique Idlett-Mosley (Reign Venture Capital), and Samuel Mensah (Kisua) talk with TechCrunch editor Ingrid Lunden. 78,000 x 550? This boy knows the answer Sibahle Zwane is only 10, but his maths skills have made him an internet sensation in South Africa. S. Africa sets path to seize white farmers' land South Africa's president is pushing legislation that will allow the government to seize private property without compensating the owner. Expropriation is an emotive subject in the country, where only four percent of land is in black hands over two... WATCH: Brazen thief makes off with Wimpy outlet's wheelchair ramp handrail A thief has made off with the handrail from the wheelchair ramp of a Wimpy in Emmarentia, Johannesburg.

The incident was caught on CCTV cameras at the restaurant on Saturday morning. Who should own South Africa's land? Plans to redistribute land from white farmers to landless blacks are raising deep feelings. Here's why. Building Africa's Technology Ecosystem - Disrupt Berlin 20 Building Africa's Technology Ecosystem - Disrupt Berlin 20 South Africa's contestant is crowned Miss Universe South Africa's Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters has been crowned Miss Universe. The 22-year-old, who recently earned a business management degree, beat 92 other women from around the world. Form+ | Startup Battlefield Africa 2017 Form+ presents in the Productivity and Utility category for Startup Battlefield Africa Solving Africa's Connectivity Equation | Startup Battlefield Africa How to close the connectivity gap in Africa and bring more people online through infrastructure, services and devices WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. WATCH: No injuries or fatalities in South African factory fire Johannesburg emergency services spent hours trying to contain a fire that broke out in a glue and paper factory in Kya Sands, Johannesburg, on Wednesday morning. Newborn baby rescued from storm drain in SAfrica Rescue workers in South Africa pulled a newborn baby from a storm drain in a four-hour operation that ended with applause and cheers from onlookers. Johannesburg's grandest old colonial club seeks new image With its imposing columned facade, hunting trophies and oil portraits, the Rand Club in Johannesburg's city centre is a relic of South Africa's colonial and apartheid past. But Alicia Thompson, a black woman born in Johannesburg, is seeking to rep... The death-defying megaloops of the world's best kitesurfers at King of the Air in South Africa Red Bull King of the Air 2019 kicked off with riders defying the laws of gravity in their quest for the biggest heights. Tiny S. Africa beach restaurant crowned best in world When it comes to fine dining, the isolated South African fishing village of Paternoster probably wouldn't be the first place you'd think of. And yet, a tiny beach restaurant in this town in South Africa's Western Cape has been crowned the world's ... WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. Newborn baby girl pulled out of South African storm drain Emergency services were called after cries were heard coming from the drain in Newlands East, near Durban in South Africa. Following a three-hour rescue operation, police are now investigating how the baby got there in the first place. South Africa pledges $4.9 bln Eskom bailout South Africa will give state power utility Eskom 69 billion rand ($4.9 billion) over three years, Finance Minister Tito Mboweni said while delivering the key part of the country's budget on Wednesday. WATCH Hundreds of flamingo chicks admitted to SANCCOB for life-saving rehabilitation Over 2 000 abandoned and distressed flamingo chicks were jetted all over South Africa this week as part of a series of mercy flights from Kimberley after their habitat came under threat due to water problems. A penguin sperm bank has been set up in South Africa to tackle their severe decline in numbers African penguins are the only penguin species listed as endangered, with just 50,000 breeding pairs left from some 5 million 20 years ago. South African chef reaches gatronomic heaven as tables turn A restaurant in a tiny fishing village in South Africa has put its stamp on the international gastronomy circuit after winning the acclaimed title of 'restaurant of the year'. WATCH: Damage to 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard a criminal act – DA The DA has called the damage inflicted on its newly unveiled 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, a 'criminal act'. Miley Cyrus is in Cape Town, South Africa Miley Cyrus was spotted shopping in Cape Town, South Africa. Mass powercuts in South Africa, sabotage denied South Africa has suffered a third day of powercuts caused by major problems at the main energy supplier Eskom. The government has only recently announced plans to split the company up. WATCH: Our approach to land expropriation will be to enhance property rights - Cyril Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed the 25th annual Investing in Africa Mining Indaba at the Cape Town International Convention Centre on Tuesday. Giraffe gives lion a piggy-back ride Africa's version of Uber? South Africans confront a gloomy economic outlook South Africa's economy has entered recession for the first time since 2009, dealing a blow to President Cyril Ramaphosa's economic reform agenda. Cruising from Durban to Pomene - and the craziness in-between Onboard the MSC Musica, taking a trip from port city Durban in South Africa to Mozambique's tropical Pomene can be quite a madhouse holiday. 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Quick Guide to Lesotho No matter what the weather may be, the Kingdom of Lesotho offers holidaymakers remote countryside, varied natural landscapes and unique cultural heritage to explore. (Photos: iStock)   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.