Jeanette Chabalala Suspended special director of public prosecutions advocate Lawrence Mrwebi testifies during the Mokgoro inquiry. (Phill Magakoe, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Suspended special director of public prosecutions Lawrence Mrwebi has complained that the Mokgoro inquiry is "extremely unfair" and that he feels like an accused person. "I don't blame anybody, I blame the process itself. It makes my life extremely difficult to prepare for this inquiry. That was a serious dilemma for me," he told inquiry chair, retired Constitutional Court Judge Yvonne Mokgoro, on Friday. LIVE: 'I had a responsibility to protect the integrity of the NPA' - Mrwebi under cross examination #Mokgoroinquiry Mrwebi is currently facing cross-examination at the inquiry. WATCH: Striking Bosasa workers didn't know about liquidation Workers employed by facilities management company Bosasa, now known as African Global Operations, staged a demonstration outside its Mogale City head office on Monday - minutes after the company announced its voluntary liquidation. He has maintained that there wasn't sufficient evidence to continue with former crime intelligence boss Richard Mdluli's corruption matter. Mdluli faced charges of fraud, theft and corruption for allegedly pillaging the crime intelligence unit's slush fund. "Besides being told, 'You are unfit to hold office,' I was not told the basis of the allegations. I feel like I'm an accused person," he said. Mrwebi asked how he should respond to questions when the evidence that was supposed to be in front of the inquiry was not available. "The only time I came to know, is when witnesses are called to the stand to implicate me. It is at that point when I had to run like a headless chicken looking for evidence. You simply do not know what to expect; what to prepare for. I'm like somebody who is engaged in a fight, but one of your hands is tied behind your back," he said. READ: 'I have no reason to favour Mdluli' - Lawrence Mrwebi testifies Mrwebi told the inquiry that the impression created was that seven people wanted the Mdluli matter to continue and that he was the only person who wanted to withdraw the charges. During his testimony on Wednesday, Mrwebi told the inquiry that he had no reason to favour Mdluli. "Bring the evidence. Let's apply the law," he said. Mrwebi said that when he took his decision to withdraw the charges, he had received representations from Mdluli's lawyers. He then asked the prosecutors for a report and the docket. He said one of the "immediate things" he noticed when reading through the docket was that transactions relating to the purchase of Mdluli's BMW were not done by him.  "There was no evidence linking Mdluli directly to the transactions and no evidence to say Mdluli knew about transactions," he said. The inquiry continues. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  ANALYSIS: Ramaphosa appoints advocate Shamila Batohi as new NPA boss President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced advocate Shamila Batohi as the new head of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). Lawson Naidoo, joins News24 opinions editor Alet Janse van Rensburg and News24 editor-in-chief in studio for analysis. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi continues to testify at state capture inquiry - Day 2 The second day of testimony by former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi at the commission of inquiry into state capture is set to be far more explosive and damning for the ruling ANC party and his former colleagues. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi testifies at state capture inquiry The Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture resumed on Wednesday with former Bosasa employee Angelo Agrizzi on the witness stand. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma's culpable homicide trial postponed to March The culpable homicide case against Duduzane Zuma was postponed to March 26 in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday. WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 3) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? The Fresh Geoffrey autonomously brings you snacks and beer at home Have you ever looked at a Roomba and thought to yourself, "Why can't they make that thing bring me some chips?" Well, these French brothers did, and happened to have the robotics expertise to make it happen. The Fresh Geoffrey of France — and yes,... Clumsy burglars steal from Texas liquor store Three clumsy burglars are wanted in the Houston area after surveillance video captured the men breaking into a Cypress liquor store and stealing several bottles of alcohol before leaving in a hurry - tripping and shattering glass in the process. 10 Coolest Animal Self-Defense Mechanisms Thinking about picking a fight with some of Mother Nature's critters? You might want to think twice about that decision. 'No evidence patient data compromised' The NHS was not specifically targeted, and it's not thought patient data was compromised, the PM says. NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh ‘stands by’ decision on Erin Weir NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh rejected Wednesday Saskatchewan MP Erin Weir’s request for an appeal of an investigation that found credible evidence to support allegations against him of harassment and sexual harassment. Johnny Depp reportedly fighting to keep medical records private Johnny Depp has demanded a judge stop his medical records from being given to his former lawyers as their bitter legal battle continues. RAW: Lawyer says Cousins genuinely seeking rehab Fallen AFL champion Ben Cousins' lawyer Michael Tudori speaking to media outside Perth Magistrates Court after his client was fined for drug possession. Tudori says Cousins now wants to be drug-free and is in a good mindset. The 40-year-old drug addict was arrested at a Canning Vale house in August, and was charged with 18 offences including aggravated stalking and possessing of a prohibited drug with intent to sell or supply. The supply charge was downgraded to possession. Ariana Grande corrected by doctors over Pete Davidson eye's comment Ariana Grande has been very publicly pulled up by doctors after she defended her fiance Pete Davidsion's sunken eye's online, after she claimed they were down to his auto immune disease. Stone faces judge as Mueller prepares evidence President Donald Trump’s longtime adviser Roger Stone made multiple media appearances in Washington on Thursday, talking freely with reporters before he was set to appear in court on Friday and likely face a gag order from a judge. Weinstein in court to replace legal team Harvey Weinstein arrived at a New York City courthouse for a judge to formally sign off on changes to his legal team in his rape and sexual assault case. Weinstein's defense attorney Benjamin Brafman is being replaced by four new lawyers. Judge imposes gag order on Roger Stone A federal judge has imposed a gag order on Roger Stone after he posted a photo on Instagram of her with what appeared to be crosshairs of gun. Life After IPO with Twilio's Jeff Lawson Frederic Ladrinois talks with Twilio's Jeff Lawson about what drove the decision to go public, addressing the concerns of their userbase, and his thoughts on bots. Dismantling Algorithmic Bias with Patrick Ball (HRDAG), Brian Brackeen (Kairos) and Kristian Lum (HR We often hear of racist and biased algorithms, but what does it take to ensure the algorithms used to make decisions about potentially life-changing circumstances like bail and policing are fair? And what does fair even mean? Human Rights Data Ana... Get Expert Insights On Stocks To Hold And The Right Time To Make A Move Get the most profitable investment & trading tips, stock picks; analysis on stock movements, market predictions and much more from our experts, K Subramanyam of Altamount Capital and Brijesh Singh from StockAxis. Victoria Police appeal for information in Melton armed robbery Detective Inspector Dean Thomas of the Armed Crime Squad appeals for help in apprehending a man how robbed a gaming venue in Melton. Judge rules on child custody in murder case A Colorado judge has decided that a 1-year-old girl will continue to stay with her maternal grandparents as prosecutors pursue a murder charge against the girl's father, Patrick Frazee, for her mother's death. How to think about developing a new business category Brynne Kennedy of Topia explains how to think about developing a new business category ‘Green Book’ winning People’s Choice surprises TIFF director TIFF director Piers Handling says the film “Green Book” came out of the “woodwork” and took everybody by surprise when it won the People’s Choice prize at the Toronto film fest Sunday. The award often corresponds with Oscar success. US says 'overwhelming' evidence against El Chapo Mexican drug lord Joaquin "El Chapo" Guzman orchestrated a two-decade campaign to flood the United States with tons of cocaine as a ruthless leader of the Sinaloa cartel, a prosecutor said in closing arguments on Wednesday at Guzman's U.S. trial. FY19 GDP Growth Seen at 7.2%: Expert Analysis & Comments Estimates say that FY19 growth will be at about 7.2%. How will this affect the Indian economy in 2019? Watch what experts have to say about the early estimates. Students meet extremists in 'poli-rad' class Teachers at an Ohio school invite members of America's political extremes into the classroom to engage with students. The goal is to teach students to question unfamiliar ideas with respect while building critical thinking skills. How children are fighting misinformation We talk to youngsters in Kampala, Uganda about their new-found critical thinking skills. Tommy Robinson freed after winning contempt of court challenge Former English Defence League leader Tommy Robinson has been freed on bail by leading judges after winning his challenge against a contempt of court finding. Harvey Weinstein arrives at court Harvey Weinstein arrived at a New York courthouse on Thursday morning as a judge decides the future of his sexual assault case. Poland's top judge defies order to quit Polish judge Malgorzata Gersdorf walked into the Supreme Court building on Wednesday, defying new legislation forcing her to retire as court president, and putting the judiciary on a collision course with the government. Judge calls surprise recess in Manafort case Judge T.S. Ellis called a surprise recess in the trial of former Donald Trump aide Paul Manafort Friday, making it unlikely the prosecution would wrap its case. Bank CEO pressed for Manafort loans A witness testified that a Chicago-based bank CEO tried to help Paul Manafort get $16 million in loans in exchange for a position in the Trump administration. Christian bakers win 'gay cake' Supreme Court appeal Supreme Court judge Lady Hale announces the owners of a bakery in Belfast have won a Supreme Court appeal over a finding that they discriminated against a customer by refusing to make a cake decorated with the words "Support Gay Marriage". Maldives crisis: Former president arrested in opposition crackdown Maldives opposition leader and two Supreme Court judges have been arrested after the government declared a state of emergency.

The charges against opposition leader Maumoon Abdul Gayoom include bribery and attempting to overthrow the government. Prosecutors seek new sentence in Van Dyke case Illinois' attorney general says he's asking the state Supreme Court to order a new sentence for the white Chicago police officer who fatally shot black teenager Laquan McDonald. AP Debrief: Stone 'noticeably reserved' in court Roger Stone, a longtime adviser and confidant of President Donald Trump, was quiet and reserved in the courtroom Tuesday as he pleaded not guilty to felony charges in the Russia investigation. AP's Eric Tucker provides a debrief of the hearing. 17 black female judges sworn in on Houston courts Harris County, Texas made history on Tuesday after 17 black female judges were sworn in among other newly elected officials for the new year. Myanmar court rejects jailed reporters' appeal A Myanmar court rejects the appeal of two Reuters reporters sentenced to seven years in jail on charges of breaking the Official Secrets Act, saying the defense had not provided sufficient evidence to show they were innocent. WATCH: Three accused of murdering Mihalik appear in court The three men accused of Pete Mihalik's murder - Vuyile Maliti, Sinozokohle Biyela and Nkosinathi Khumalo - appear in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Friday 15 February 2019. Reuters journalists being handed seven-year jail term Reuters journalists left a court in Yangon after a Myanmar judge found them guilty of breaching a law on state secrets and sentenced them to seven years in prison. Lawyer speaks after WA dine-and-dash woman jailed Defence counsel David Manera speaks with reporters outside Perth Magistrate’s Court after his client was sentenced to two years in jail. Mr Manera says his client, Perth’s infamous serial “dine and dash” woman, may convert almost $4000 in fines into extra time behind bars. Lois Loder, 45, first made headlines in April when a Swan Valley restaurant posted CCTV footage on social media of her and alleged co-offender Chiminh Phun doing a runner after a $250 meal. WATCH: Heavy police escort for Mihalik accused Three people appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Thursday on charges for the murder of top advocate Pete Mihalik. Trump's ex-lawyer Cohen arriving at court ahead of sentencing President Trump's former personal lawyer Michael Cohen arriving at court with his family ahead of sentencing. Cohen is one of several members of Trump's team who have run afoul of the law, but the only one to belong to Trump's inner circle. Klopp explains Fabinho's continued absence from the Liverpool side Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp explained Fabinho's continued absence from his squad on Friday (14th September) - but reaffirmed his belief the midfielder will improve The Reds. Couple exposed to 'mystery substance' near Skripal poisoning site critically ill A couple are in a critical condition after being exposed to a mystery substance in a town near Stonehenge. Grenfell firefighter in tears at inquiry A firefighter who battled the blaze at Grenfell Tower brought his evidence at the inquiry into the disaster to a halt by bursting into tears. Mueller has toughened stance on Trump interview: Giuliani President Trump’s attorney Rudy Giuliani says Mueller has hardened his stance on questioning Trump, asking for a follow-up interview to written answers to questions about possible collusion between his campaign and Russia in the 2016 U.S. election. A brief, incomplete history of strange Canadian industrial thefts Police are baffled after Newfoundland thieves made off with about 30,000 litres of unbottled iceberg water worth as much as $12,000. The unusual bounty, which was to be used to make vodka, was being stored in a warehouse in Port Union, N.L. Here i...   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.