Ntwaagae Seleka (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Residents of Klipspruit West in Soweto have rejected a South Africa Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) report, which found that disruptive protests at Klipspruit West Secondary School were racially motivated. The school has been in the spotlight after protests began in May 2017 after the appointment of a black principal, identified as B. Makatu, in the predominantly coloured community. However, residents insisted that it was not a race issue, but an issue about alleged irregularities in the appointment process. The disruptions led teachers to stay away from the school after they were prevented from entering the premises. READ: Klipspruit-West Secondary School disruptions 'counterproductive' – Gauteng education dept According to the SABC, spokesperson for the Greater Eldorado Park Business Forum Charis Pretorius said they would formally submit their objections. The community feels the commission has failed to understand their issues. They claim that the newly-appointed principal lives next door to the South African Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) representative who was on the interview panel. "What the Human Rights Commission did not get is that the Department of Education failed the people of Klipspruit West when it came to the appointment and training of [the] SGB (school governing body); it failed them when it came to unions and the role the union has to play in the placement of Ms Makatu." But the commission said oral submissions during its visit to the community actually demonstrated racial tensions. Commissioner Andrew Gaum said the situation was fuelled by racial tensions.  The Commission has found that no consideration was given by protesters to the best interests and of the child and therefore the protest constituted an unjustifiable violation of the right to basic education  The Commission directs that the Office of the Premier must, within 180 days address issues of poor service delivery and lack of adequate housing in collaboration with the Department of Human Settlements and the City of Johannesburg.  "Tensions and disruptions were fuelled by racial tensions. [The] commission notes that during oral submissions, some submissions closely mirrored the principles along which the machinery of apartheid operated, for example separate communities and no integration," the report said. The commission made several recommendations, including that community-based organisations in conjunction with the City of Johannesburg should conduct an indaba in an effort to quell racial tensions. It also recommended a broader indaba by the provincial government. READ: Klipspruit West SGB dissolved, teaching expected to continue The Department of Education was also directed to conduct workshops on race issues. Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi welcomed the report, saying it provided him with a basis to go back to the school and try again. The principal refused to go back to the school, citing safety concerns. The department will now undergo a process to appoint a new candidate. The commission also directed that the office of Premier David Makhura must, within 180 days, address issues of poor service delivery and a lack of adequate housing in collaboration with the Department of Human Settlements and the City of Johannesburg. WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral. WATCH: Khayelitsha school bids to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place Chairperson of Enkanini Primary's School Governing Body Andile Lili shows what the school is doing in a bid to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place at the school in Khayelitsha WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.