Ntwaagae Seleka WATCH: Bosasa liquidator takes charge of documents, servers Bosasa liquidator Cloete Murray on Friday took charge at the company's headquarters in Krugersdorp following their voluntary liquidation. A large number of employees are expected to down tools indefinitely at African Global Operations (AGO), as the services and facilities management company formerly known as Bosasa faces liquidation. Last week, AGO announced it had filed for voluntary liquidation after two of its banks – FNB and Absa – informed the controversial business they were closing their banking facilities. On Friday, workers were shut out of the firm's Krugersdorp head office, a day after the High Court appointed a liquidator to wind up the company. At the time, liquidator Cloete Murray said he could not confirm how long the workers would be employed for. WATCH: SARS swoops on Bosasa A team of South African Revenue Service officials arrived at Bosasa's head office shortly after noon on Friday to execute a search and seizure warrant. READ: Bosasa board dissolved, workers to keep their jobs for now - liquidator On the same day, the South African Revenue Service (SARS) swooped on AGO's campus, seizing documents and computers. Staffers have told News24 they received termination of employment letters on Monday. According to one employee, workers are angry and are demanding that their jobs be saved. He said the letter informed them that they would be serving their last few weeks in the company. "It is bad and we are losing our jobs. The liquidator has told us in the letter that it is over," he said. WATCH: Bosasa staffers shut out of offices as panic sets in over company's future On Monday, workers returned to work after Murray and their labour unions convinced them to. Employees began panicking on Thursday evening when they received notification of their salaries being paid, a week ahead of schedule. They then refused to work on Friday, and also declined to hand over company-issued laptops. Bosasa's woes deepened when its former chief operating officer Angelo Agrizzi gave testimony before the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. Agrizzi blew the lid on Bosasa's intricate web of patronage, claiming the company paid politicians and influential civil servants millions of rands to secure state contracts. MUST READ: Agrizzi on coming clean: 'I sleep very well at night, thank you'  ANALYSIS: In a way this is the end of Bosasa, says Adriaan Basson News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and Opinions Editor Alet Janse van Rensburg unpack the latest developments in the Bosasa scandal, after the company announced it was under voluntary liquidation. Watch. WATCH: EFF in heated brawl at East London Hungry Lion franchise Police have opened a case of assault following a scuffle between members of the Economic Freedom Fighters and staff at a Hungry Lion outlet in East London.

The incident took place on Friday. LISTEN: That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. WATCH: This father says outsourcing at Eskom is hurting his kids' future When Tshepang's* first child was born, he dropped out of school to seek work. He has worked as a contractor at various state entities. His current contract sees his salary filtered through two labour broking companies before it reaches him. WATCH: Bosasa liquidator takes charge of documents, servers Bosasa liquidator Cloete Murray on Friday took charge at the company's headquarters in Krugersdorp following their voluntary liquidation. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi continues to testify at state capture inquiry - Day 2 The second day of testimony by former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi at the commission of inquiry into state capture is set to be far more explosive and damning for the ruling ANC party and his former colleagues. ANALYSIS | #StateCaptureInquiry: Unpacking Agrizzi's testimony Watch as News24 investigative journalist Kyle Cowen and journalist Jeanette Chabalala unpack former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi's revelations at the state capture commission. WATCH: Protesters to Ramaphosa: Give us the money you give to the buffalo The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) and other trade unions took to the streets in Cape Town on Thursday to protest against police brutality and low wages. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi testifies at state capture inquiry The Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture resumed on Wednesday with former Bosasa employee Angelo Agrizzi on the witness stand.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.