Tania Broughton, Correspondent A device thought to be an explosive has been found at a KZN mosque that was attacked last week. (Supplied, Reaction Unit South Africa) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Five extra charges have been added to the list of offences allegedly committed by the 12 accused "Durban bombers" as the State now claims it can positively link them to other bombings in the city. The fresh charges all fall under the Protection of Constitutional Democracy Against Terrorist and Related Activities Act and relate to the planting of devices at Woolworths stores at Gateway and Pavilion shopping centres as well as in the Morningside area over the weekend of the Durban July last year. The amended charge sheet remains provisional and the accused are expected to be served with an indictment to stand trial in the KwaZulu-Natal High Court. For now they are still appearing in the Verulam Magistrate's Court and the matter was adjourned until April 15. This is because the State still intends to bring an application to get voice samples from the main accused and alleged "ringleader", local businessman Farhad Hoomer. Advocate Adele Barnard, for the State, told Magistrate Irfaan Khallil the defence had indicated it might challenge this. In October last year, police initially arrested a total of 19 people on charges relating to the planting of a number of incendiary devices at various locations in and around Durban over the course of several months as well as the fatal knife attack in May at the Imam Hussain Mosque in Verulam which claimed the life of Abbas Essop. The police swooped on them in a series of raids during which a Tanzanian man was also found chained in what they described as a dungeon in a Reservoir Hills property belonging to Hoomer. It's believed the Tanzanian man was being held ransom. Extremist literature was also found during the raids. The accused were initially facing seven charges relating to eleven incidents. Charges against seven of the men were dropped early on in proceedings because they weren't positively identified during an ID parade. The remaining accused are all on bail. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Cruising from Durban to Pomene - and the craziness in-between Onboard the MSC Musica, taking a trip from port city Durban in South Africa to Mozambique's tropical Pomene can be quite a madhouse holiday. Newborn baby rescued from storm drain in SAfrica Rescue workers in South Africa pulled a newborn baby from a storm drain in a four-hour operation that ended with applause and cheers from onlookers. Newborn baby girl pulled out of South African storm drain Emergency services were called after cries were heard coming from the drain in Newlands East, near Durban in South Africa. Following a three-hour rescue operation, police are now investigating how the baby got there in the first place. Newborn baby rescued from storm drain The infant was pulled alive from the pipe after a three-hour operation in Durban. WATCH: Durban baby rescued from storm drain a 'miracle' - doctor The newborn baby that was rescued from a stormwater pipe in Durban on Monday morning is in good health, her attending physician has said. WATCH: Rescuers save newborn baby girl in three-hour operation A newborn baby girl has been saved after emergency services conducted a three hour mammoth rescue from a storm drain pipe in Durban. WATCH: Rescue workers attempt to save baby from drain pipe A dramatic rescue of an apparent newborn is underway in Durban after passerby's heard the child's cries on Monday morning. WATCH: Journalists manhandled and barred from Durban City Hall The South African National Editors' Forum (SANEF) on Tuesday released a statement condemning the "unconstitutional and chilling action" taken against journalists at the Durban City Hall. 'Our rail system has gone to the dogs' - DA protests at Prasa offices The Democratic Alliance held a picket outside the offices of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA) in Hatfield, Pretoria on Wednesday. WATCH: 'That's why Julius must take the land' - woman's Clicks rant goes viral Video footage of a woman verbally attacking a fellow customer at a Clicks pharmacy in Durban has been widely circulated on social media. WATCH: Video of Durban businessman chastising white beggar goes viral A video of a Durban businessman refusing to give a white beggar R2 because "my forefathers will kill me", has gone viral on social media. WATCH: 'Unruly' passenger forcibly removed from Kulula flight A passenger was forcibly removed from a Kulula flight bound for Johannesburg from Durban on Sunday night. WATCH: Residents cry for help as man shot dead in Durban road A 32-year-old male suspect will appear in court on a charge of murder on Tuesday after a video shows Chatsworth community members crowding around a dead body in the street. Is dit dieselfde man wat opmerkings teen wittes maak? Videos word wyd gedeel van 'n man wat glo aanmerkings teen wit mense maak, veral waar hy weier om R2 aan 'n wit bedelaar te gee en sê "wit mense is moordenaars". Die videos van 'n sakeman van Durban het vir 'n groot bohaai op sosiale media gesorg. WATCH | Wife, colleagues pay tribute to metro cop killed by taxi A Durban metro police officer, who was run over and killed while on duty outside the Galleria Mall in Amanzimtoti, will be laid to rest on Monday morning. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. WATCH: Ramaphosa tees off ahead of ANC's manifesto launch President Cyril Ramaphosa enjoyed a day of golf on Friday morning ahead of  the ANC's birthday celebrations and manifesto launch on Saturday. Ramaphosa played alongside paired players at the Mount Edgecombe Country Club Estate in Durban. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). South Africa's ex-president just signed a record deal Former president Jacob Zuma, who is implicated in a major corruption scandal, has been given a taxpayer-funded record deal. WATCH: Diver struggles to wade through trash in Durban harbour Video footage of a diver struggling to make his way out of the Durban harbour due to a line of trash has surfaced on social media. WATCH: Hijackers caught by Tracker officer on Christmas Day maybe connected to other crimes Police have arrested several suspects in connection to a botch hijacking that happened in Durban on Christmas Eve. WATCH: Durban metro police and taxi driver get into heated argument A video of an altercation between a metro police officer and a taxi driver in Durban, is making the rounds on various social networks. WATCH: 7-year-old caught on camera stealing cellphone A video of a young child stealing a cellphone from a hair salon in Chatsworth, near Durban has gone viral online. WATCH: Intercape bus driver suspended after being filmed driving recklessly There have been a numerous fatalities and mishaps on SA's roads since the beginning of the festive season.

Now, as we enter the height of celebrations, more reports of risky driving and fatalities have emerged. WATCH: Durban metro police officer charges at motorist A video of an altercation between a Durban Metro police officer and a driver has gone viral on social media. WATCH: CCTV footage of brazen robbery at Durban curry restaurant The Copper Chimney at the Chatsworth Centre, near Durban, was stormed and robbed by four men as the restaurant was closing up on Sunday night, East Coast Radio (ECR) reported. WATCH: Woman abducted in Durban Morningside hijacking, found safe Following a frantic search, authorities have found a Durban woman who was hijacked and abducted in Morningside on Friday morning. WATCH: Durban taxi driver crams 25 commuters into crowded taxi A taxi driver was fined R 5000 after he was found to have 25 passengers in his taxi in Durban last week. WATCH: Shooting at KZN court - two confirmed dead At least two people have been shot and killed at the Durban Magistrate's Court. WATCH: Two of these KZN home invaders were killed by police Two suspects from the notorious "Mercedes Gang" were killed in a shoot-out with police while robbing a home in Durban North on Tuesday. Sterkste arms in Bloemfontein bymekaar Die Vrystaat en Noord-Kaap provinsiale kragoptel-kampioenskap is Saterdag in Bloemfontein gehou waar 35 atelete van sover as Durban deelgeneem het. WATCH: Community protests over housing in Mariannridge, Durban Mariannridge residents blockaded roads with burning tires and tree logs during a protest over housing in the area on Tuesday. WATCH. Albie Morkel believes Durban Heat are the team to beat Durban Heat captain Albie Morkel says his side are raring to go ahead of the inaugural Mzansi Super League. WATCH: 'There's no outbreak of salmonella in KZN' – health department tries to quell fears There have been a number of laboratory-confirmed cases of salmonella in Durban but there is no "outbreak" of infections in the province, KwaZulu-Natal health authorities said on Monday. WATCH: Little Maths genius scores prestigious scholarship In September, 2018, News24 interviewed 10-year-old math genius, Sbahle Zwane.
One month later, the Zwane family received news that Sbahle had been granted a scholarship at the prestigious Curro Academy in Protea Glen, Soweto. WATCH. WATCH: SAAF helps Netcare911 hone their helicopter rescue skills in Durban Netcare911 and the South African Air Force's (SAAF) 15 Squadron held their annual refresher training session in Durban last week. Quick-thinking couple saves sleeping man in burning Durban beachfront building A man was saved at the Durban beachfront on Friday morning, thanks to some quick thinking.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.