Sarah Evans The African Transformation Movement's Dr Zukile Luyenge (Photo: People's Assembly) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Office of the ANC Chief Whip in the National Assembly has confirmed the resignation of ANC MP Dr Zukile Luyenge, who defected to the African Transformation Movement (ATM). At a press conference on Friday, Luyenge confirmed that he would be leaving the ANC after nearly 30 years in the party. In a statement, spokesperson for the Office of the ANC Chief Whip Nonceba Mhlauli said that chief whip Jackson Mthembu confirmed Luyenge's defection, after it was reported in the media."In light of this development, we will write to the Office of the Speaker of the National Assembly informing her that Dr Luyenge is no longer a member of the ANC, therefore immediately forfeiting his seat as an ANC MP. "The ANC is currently processing his replacement and will make an announcement in this regard at an appropriate time," Mhlauli said. Vindicated The ATM rose to prominence when former government spokesperson, and former owner of The New Age and ANN7 Mzwanele Manyi, joined the little known party in January this year. Manyi told News24 on Sunday that Luyenge's defection vindicated his and other ANC members' decision to leave the governing party. "This confirms that indeed the ANC continues to disappoint a lot of people who have been loyal to it over many years. Dr Luyenge has been a very loyal and disciplined member of the ANC, and for him to come to this conclusion confirms that we who left earlier are vindicated," Manyi said. Servant Dr Zukile Luyenge officially addressing the members of the @ATMovement_SA at the @ATM_EasternCape BCM Rally #SAElections #Elections2019 #VoteATM2019 #PUTSA1st #ATM pic.twitter.com/3EzIJqZs02 pic.twitter.com/mfscGr0L5j Luyenge said in a statement and in an interview with the People's Assembly that he cut his teeth in struggle politics by joining the Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union in 1989. As an employee of the Department of Correctional Services in the Transkei, he came into contact with political prisoners who "conscientised" him. This led to his arrest, and he later joined the South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco). He joined the National Assembly as an ANC MP in 2009. Gratitude In announcing his resignation, Luyenge expressed his "unreserved gratitude" to the ANC. "Without aligning my political ideals to it I wouldn't have seen my country liberated from the chains of oppression… It is because of the freedom today that we are all able to align ourselves with political parties and civic organisations of our choices." Luyenge said the ANC had shown "signs of decline" in 2018. "I have taken a decision to join the African Transformation Movement as it is one party that has shown me to have the perfect formula to transform South Africa for the better," Luyenge said. PODCAST: #SONA2019 | Focus on the economy (almost a Mbeki-type speech) This week on POLOTIKI we discuss President Cyril Ramaphosa's second State of the Nation Address, delivered on Thursday evening during a joint session of Parliament. WATCH: EFF MP slaps security official at Parliament The Economic Freedom Fighters were caught in yet another scuffle at Parliament on Thursday, when one of their MPs assaulted a security official. MP's react to the reshuffle: 'The president is not in charge of his own party' Former deputy minister of telecommunications and postal services Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams was appointed as minister of communications. Ramaphosa announced he would merge the telecommunications and communications departments and both departments. GIGABYE: Times Malusi Gigaba showed how seriously he takes Parliament This week Malusi Gigaba resigned as minister of home affairs, tendering his resignation as MP shortly thereafter. Land expropriation: EFF says it's race issue; DA questions process Court action to prevent Parliament from amending the Constitution to allow for expropriation without compensation seems imminent as parties opposing an amendment to section 25 all sang from the same hymn sheet. WATCH: Julius Malema on changing the constitution regarding land expropriation On 13 November in parliament, during the first day of the Joint Constitutional Review Committee deliberating a draft report on the possible review of Section 25 of the Constitution to allow expropriation of land without compensation. WATCH: Gigaba apologises for pinky finger gesture Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba has apologised unreservedly for making a gesture with his pinky finger at an EFF MP during Parliament's volatile sitting on Tuesday. WATCH: Mixed reactions to Tito Mboweni's 2018 mini budget speech Newly-minted Finance Minister Tito Mboweni delivered his maiden medium term budget policy statement in Parliament on Wednesday afternoon. WATCH: Markus Jooste's top quotes to Parliament Markus Jooste, the former head of the embattled retailer Steinhoff, fielded questions from MPs in Parliament on the conglomerate's governance and share price collapse.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.