Jan Gerber Cyril Ramaphosa during his State of the Nation Address in February 2019. (Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories It is time for South Africans to take climate change seriously, said President Cyril Ramaphosa on Thursday in his response to the debate on his State of the Nation Address. He said if South Africa is a country that prioritises the interests of the poor and the vulnerable, then we need to act with greater urgency to respond to the effects of climate change and make our contribution to preventing it. "The rural poor are most affected by the droughts that have become more frequent and which last longer," he said. "The urban poor is most affected by the impact this has on food prices and the availability of water. OVERVIEW | Sellout, Scorpions and Eskom: 7 takeouts from Ramaphosa's #SONADebate reply "It is people who live in informal settlements who are most affected by the flooding that accompanies the increasingly extreme weather conditions." He said we are all affected in different ways by the environmental changes taking place on land, in our oceans and in the air. "Unless we tackle climate change, we will not be able to meet our developmental objectives." He said South Africa ratified the Paris Agreement to Combat Climate Change as part of the global effort to dramatically reduce the rate of global warming. 'Fair contribution' Ramaphosa said as part of the country's efforts to build a sustainable low carbon economy, we are taking steps to finalise the national Climate Change Bill, which will provide a regulatory framework for the management of climate change and its impacts. "We are making a fair contribution to the global effort to stabilise greenhouse gases through our Nationally Determined Contribution to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change." He said South Africa is due to be the next coordinator of the Committee of African Heads of State and Government on Climate Change, which is vital in ensuring that Africa remains united and speaks with one voice on the key climate change issues facing the Continent. He also paid homage to the role Edna Molewa, who passed away last year, played in these efforts as Minister of Environmental Affairs. "The progress we have made in responding to the various environmental challenges that confront our people is in no small measure thanks to the leadership and dedication of the late Minister of Environmental Affairs, Edna Molewa," he said. "She worked to ensure that the conservation of the environment became a catalyst to advance the objectives of the National Development Plan." READ MORE: 'Not at all. Not at all' - Ramaphosa gets standing ovation as he responds to sellout claims "Taking our lead from her vision, we continue to encourage investment in cleaner energy through the renewable energy independent power producers programme." Ramaphosa said South Africa benefitted through the competitive bidding process from rapid, global technology developments and price trends, buying clean energy at lower and lower rates with every bid cycle. "As a result, South Africa is now getting renewable energy at some of the lowest tariffs in the world. "Under the renewable energy, a total number of 112 projects have been procured and it is envisaged that these projects will create 114,266 job years over the construction and 20 year operations period." 'Conscious human action' A job year is equivalent to a full time employment opportunity for one person for one year. Ramaphosa said government will work with all stakeholders to ensure that the gradual transition towards new forms of electricity generation creates jobs, develops new capabilities and does not negatively affect the livelihoods of communities. While congresswomen Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is agitating for a Green New Deal in the United States, South Africans will have to do with the Good Green Deeds programme. Ramaphosa announced that on March 8, this "landmark campaign" will be launched to "mobilise all South Africans to become environmentally conscious". "The Good Green Deeds programme is aimed at changing behaviour towards littering, towards illegal dumping, and towards waste in general," Ramaphosa said. He said it is part of government's call and commitment "to clean South Africa, to make our cities, towns and rural areas places where it is safe and healthy for all to live". "Because of environmentally insensitive human action, the forces of nature conspired to set in motion the dramatic process of climate change," Ramaphosa said. "It is by conscious human action that its effects can and will be mitigated and ultimately reversed." South Africa's current minister of environmental affairs is Nomvula Mokoyane.  Several opposition speakers called for her head after she was mentioned by whistleblower Angelo Agrizzi in his explosive testimony at the Zondo Commission about the Bosasa-scandal. Allegations of corruption and mismanagement plagued her term as minister of water affairs and sanitation. Ramaphosa didn't address these issues in his reply.  Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. WATCH: Bill Gates voices optimism about Africa in AU speech President Cyril Ramaphosa was in Ethiopia for the 32nd ordinary session of African Union heads of state on Saturday.
He met with Microsoft chairman Bill Gates at a gala dinner hosted by Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed. PODCAST: #SONA2019 | Focus on the economy (almost a Mbeki-type speech) This week on POLOTIKI we discuss President Cyril Ramaphosa's second State of the Nation Address, delivered on Thursday evening during a joint session of Parliament. WATCH: Unpacking Ramaphosa's job creation plan News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and Head of Video Jerusha Sukhdeo-Raath discuss President Cyril Ramaphosa's plans for job creation that he announced during the State of the Nation Address on Thursday. Watch. WATCH: What would the Ramaphosa-Malema-Maimane band be called? If President Cyril Ramaphosa formed a band with EFF leader Julius Malema and DA leader Mmusi Maimane, what should it be called? WATCH: News24 analysis of Ramaphosa's 'feel-good' SONA News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and News24 Head of Video Jerusha Sukhdeo-Raath discuss the tone and substance of President Cyril Ramaphosa's second State of the Nation Address. WATCH: Mixed reaction to Ramaphosa's SONA speech While some political figures lauded President Cyril Ramaphosa's second State of the Nation speech, others dismissed it as 'lip service' and 'a campaigning speech'. Watch. WATCH: Ramaphosa's reincarnated Scorpions a 'seminal moment' in SONA 2019 News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson calls President Cyril Ramaphosa's announcement that he will bring back a Scorpions-like unit to help root out corruption a 'major announcement' during post-SONA analysis. WATCH: Our approach to land expropriation will be to enhance property rights - Cyril Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed the 25th annual Investing in Africa Mining Indaba at the Cape Town International Convention Centre on Tuesday. There will prosecutions and people will go to jail - Cyril Ramaphosa assures investors President Cyril Ramaphosa has said that SA welcomes investors at the Mining Indaba with open arms and has emphasised that SA and Africa are destinations that can offer great value. WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. WATCH: Cyril Ramaphosa speaking at the start of his official state visit in India South African President Cyril Ramaphosa speaking at the start of his official state visit in India. He is flanked by Indian Prime Minister Nareandri Modi (in white) and Indian President Ram Nath Kovind WATCH: Ramaphosa tees off ahead of ANC's manifesto launch President Cyril Ramaphosa enjoyed a day of golf on Friday morning ahead of  the ANC's birthday celebrations and manifesto launch on Saturday. Ramaphosa played alongside paired players at the Mount Edgecombe Country Club Estate in Durban.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.