Kaveel Singh WATCH: Rescue workers attempt to save baby from drain pipe A dramatic rescue of an apparent newborn is underway in Durban after passerby's heard the child's cries on Monday morning. Paramedics try rescue a newborn baby  from a storm water drain (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The dramatic rescue of an apparent newborn is underway in Durban after passers-by heard the child's cries on Monday morning, paramedic services have said. Rescue Care spokesperson Garrith Jamieson said emergency services were on the scene in Newlands East on the corner of Barracuda Road and Herring Way. "The baby is trapped in a storm water drain. We can hear the baby crying. Durban fire department and the police search and rescue [unit] have cleared around the pipe and are trying to reach the child." READ: Passer-by rescues hours-old baby from drain He added that an Air Mercy helicopter was en route to hastily transport the child to hospital. More to follow. WATCH: Fire rescue Bambi trotting on the road to recovery At just a few months old, a rescued baby Cape Grysbok has touched the hearts of the many residents of the Cape overstrand area, which has recently been underthreat by a devastating fire for two weeks. Buffalo attempts to rescue baby elephant from lion's mouth In a rare show of bravery, a herd of buffalo tried to save a baby elephant from a pride of hungry lions. The video shows the lions on top of the upturned calf, trying to kill it. A herd of buffalo from a nearby watering hole heard the commotion. WATCH: Man desperately tries to save beached dolphin When Paul Gardiner spotted a dolphin stranded on a beach in the Eastern Cape, he didn't think twice before trying to rescue the animal. WATCH: Two men who saved man from drowning on beach on New Year's Day say they aren't heroes Two young men put their own lives at risk to save a stranger from drowning on a Western Cape beach on New Year's Day. 
When Dewald van der Westhuizen (22)  and Hannes Swart (22) noticed a man in trouble, they swam to his aid, without thinking twice. WATCH: SAAF helps Netcare911 hone their helicopter rescue skills in Durban Netcare911 and the South African Air Force's (SAAF) 15 Squadron held their annual refresher training session in Durban last week.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.