Correspondent Stevens Mokgalapa. (Tshidi Madia) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Newly elected Tshwane Mayor Stevens Mokgalapa has announced that the City has cancelled the scandal-ridden GladAfrica contract. Mokgalapa made the announcement at a media briefing in Pretoria early on Monday morning, reports eNCA. The mayor reportedly said the contract was terminated by mutual agreement. Last month, embattled municipal manager of the City of Tshwane Moeketsi Mosola did an about-turn regarding the GladAfrica scandal, conceding that the expenditure for the tender was in fact irregular, as stated by the Auditor General (AG). Tshwane member of the mayoral committee for finance Mare-Lise Fourie told News24 that around R317m spent on the GladAfrica tender had been found to be irregular. This was also conceded by Mosola. "The AG in accordance with his mandate expressed an opinion on the financial statements which concluded that the GladAfrica contract is irregular," Fourie told News24. Engineering company GladAfrica and the City have been at the centre of allegations of tender irregularities since last year. It was reported that GladAfrica scored a R12bn deal to provide the City with project management support. Earlier this month, Mokgalapa vowed to become "Mr Service Delivery" who will act on the multibillion-rand GladAfrica saga.  [JUST IN] Tshwane Mayor Stevens Mokgalapa terminates contract between #GladAfrica and City of Tshwane as of June 2019. pic.twitter.com/0U3msuLwum  WATCH: Car-free zones piloted in Pretoria as part of Transport Month The City of Tshwane has created a temporary Car-Free Zone in the heart of Hatfield in Pretoria on Friday. WATCH: Tshwane mayor visits Pretoria train crash victims' families Tshwane Metro Mayor, Solly Msimanga, visited two families of the deceased from last week's Mountain View train accident.
Msimanga expressed his condolences and offered support with the funeral arrangements. WATCH: Thieves steal Diesel watches from Pretoria shop A Pretoria business has appealed to twitter following the brazen theft of four Diesel watches worth R 4000 each out of a locked display. WATCH: Straight from the horse's mouth - Pretoria preacher uses trusty steed to deliver sermon Seeing a man on a horse is a rare sight nowadays, and a man on his steed in a church, even more so. WATCH: Truck carrying bitumen catches fire Part of the R21 near Irene in Pretoria was covered in a cloud of black smoke as a truck transporting bitumen caught fire. WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. WATCH: Pretoria West streets gridlocked as residents burn tyres and block roads Motorists and commuters have been warned to avoid several parts of Pretoria West on Thursday owing to protest action that started in the early hours of the morning. WATCH: Conterfeit goods confiscated in by-law enforcement operation Thirteen bags of counterfeit goods valued at R700 000.00 was confiscated in Tshwane on Wednesday. WATCH: Roaring trade for some small businesses amidst load shedding gloom Last Sunday Eskom implemented load shedding for the first time since December 2019. While this has resulted in major inconvenience and loss of income for ordinary South Africans and most businesses, some are seeing a sharp increase in trade as a dire WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. Global Teen from the Dominican Republic Amelia Ceballos Melenciano is 16 years old and comes from the Cinco de April quarter of the San Cristobal municipality in the Dominican Republic. WATCH: Bushiri 'a true man of god' - supporters Hundreds of devoted supporters of embattled self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri gathered outside court again on Wednesday to show their support. Watch. Valentine's weddings atop Empire State building Valentine's weddings atop Empire State building NYC's Chinatown welcomes Year of the Pig Drums, dragons and dancers paraded through New York's Chinatown Sunday to usher in the Year of the Pig in the metropolis with the biggest population of Chinese descent of any city outside Asia. NY Mayor slams Amazon for pulling HQ2 plans New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio has slammed Amazon for pulling the plug on plans to set up a headquarters in the city, saying the decision caught him by surprise. Tourists brave the frigid cold in NYC The severe cold that is enveloping much the Midwest has also brought frigid temperatures to New York City, but it hasn't stopped the tourists. Cory Booker launches 2020 presidential campaign Sen. Cory Booker is running for president in 2020. The New Jersey Democrat made the announcement in a video message to supporters Friday, emphasizing a return to American unity in an era of deep political divisions. NY police: friendly fire apparently killed detective New York City police say a detective was killed by friendly fire while responding to a report of an armed robbery. A suspect is in custody. Police say an imitation firearm was recovered. Amazon ditches New York City expansion plan Amazon.com announced Thursday that it will not go ahead with plans to build headquarters in New York City due to stiff opposition from lawmakers and area residents.  Conway G. A Sense of Place Thanks to a progressive public transportation portfolio that includes train, streetcar, bus and aerial tram, the American city of Portland has become a global model of transit-oriented development. Bloomberg talks Schultz, taxes in NH Former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg slammed a potential independent presidential run by former Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz, saying it would help re-elect Donald Trump. He also weighed-in on key campaign plans announced by Democrats. Longchamp's woman takes a NY Fashion Week trip to Paris Kendall Jenner and Liu Wen took a break from the catwalk to sit front row for Longchamp's second appearance at New York Fashion Week.   Creative director Sophie Delafontaine was moved by New York City's concrete jungle to tell the season's story o... Largest North American diamond in NYC The largest diamond ever discovered in North America will be on display in New York City for the next several days. Two new R. Kelly accusers speak out Two women say singer R. Kelly picked them out of a crowd at a Baltimore after-party in the mid-1990s when they were underage and had sex with one of the teens although she was under the influence of marijuana and alcohol and could not consent. Women's underwear turned into art to fight objectification in Valencia Women’s underwear were turned into ceramic artworks, to protest sexual objectification, as part of a joint initiative between an art school in the town of Manises near Valencia and the city council. Women were asked to volunteer by taking off thei... Mexico City's first elected female mayor takes oath of office Claudia Sheinbaum takes the oath of office in Mexico as the first woman to be elected mayor of Mexico City. Toronto representatives challenge Ford's council downsizing The Ontario government threw a wrench into Toronto municipal politics on Friday by announcing a huge reduction to the size of the city's council. Toronto's mayor and city councillors react to Premier Doug Ford's proposed change. Toronto mayor denounces Doug Ford's plan to slash council seats Toronto mayor John Tory is criticizing a proposed plan from Doug Ford to reduce the number of city councillors from 47 to 25. Tory says the Ontario premier should not be interfering ahead of October's municipal election. Mexico City Mayor vows an end to persecution and abuse Claudia Sheinbaum takes the oath of office in Mexico as the first woman to be elected mayor of Mexico City and vows to restore democracy and political freedom, and stop the abuse and persecution of opposition members. French towns demand aid for damage inflicted by "yellow vest" protests Mayors of French cities met with French finance minister Bruno Le Maire on Wednesday (February 13), demanding more aid for their communities, especially for business owners who bear the brunt of weekly "yellow vest" protests. One dead and police officers wounded in US industrial park shooting A suspect has been arrested after at least one person was killed and four police officers wounded during a shooting in an industrial park near Chicago.

Clayton Muhammad, the director of communications for the city of Aurora, said the officers are... SA train collision leaves 600 injured A train collision in South Africa's capital Pretoria kills at least three and injures more than 600. WATCH: Huge cobra on the loose in Pretoria apartment block's drainage system Residents of a block of flats in Pretoria East are in for a slithery night as a venomous snouted cobra has taken refuge in the drainage system. WATCH: TUT students march to the police ministry over student death Chaos erupted on Wednesday as around 300 students marched through the Pretoria CBD protesting over the death of a student who was allegedly shot by police last week. WATCH: Weekend hail leaves parts of Pretoria covered in ice Severe weather conditions hit large parts of Gauteng this past weekend after the South African Weather Service (SAWS) issued a notice for severe thunderstorms across the province. Supporters come out to cheer new Mexico City mayor Supporters watch outside Congress as the first woman elected mayor of Mexico City is sworn in for a six-year term leading one of the world's largest cities, in a country with a deep tradition of machismo. Going drag racing with a politician Watch as City of Cape Town's mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith answers questions while sitting passenger at a legal racing event. WATCH: The Sasol Solar Challenge Sasol Solar Challenge 2018 took place from the 22nd to the 30th of September. A court interpreter in South Africa Royce Buda is one of the most important people at the Pretoria High Court. The interpreter speaks 16 languages and therefore he is vital in most cases. South Africa is a country with many languages. Blogger Steve Hanisch explores Alicante The Spanish port city of Alicante is famous for its historic old town district. Travel blogger Steve Hanisch visits the 13th century Castillo de Santa Barbara, a fortress that boasts spectacular views. WATCH: Emergency personnel working to free people trapped under collided trains At least three people have been confirmed dead, while scores of others have been left injured following a train collision at Mountain View station, Pretoria on
Tuesday morning. Amazon drops NYC expansion plans Amazon will not build a new headquarters in New York City, a stunning reversal to an ambitious plan that would have brought an estimated 25,000 jobs to the city. Protesters demand mayor's resignation over building collapses Ten days after two dilapidated buildings collapsed in Marseille, killing at least eight people, hundreds of protesters march from the disaster site to the city's town hall. Mayor: Toronto still 'one of the safest cities' in the world After a string of shootings in Toronto, Mayor John Tory says efforts are being made to get "gangsters" off the street. Tory says the city is still "generally safe."     .  . Amazon to New York City: Fuggedaboutit! Amazon will not move forward with plans to build a headquarters in New York after rising opposition from local politicians. How Amazon scrapped its New York headquarters plans Amazon says the decision came together in the last 48 hours. But as Fred Katayama reports, the decision was by some measures months in the making.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.