Riaan Grobler (File Photo) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A 33-year-old man who is employed by City Power contractor Bvelela Engineering was arrested on Tuesday afternoon for soliciting a bribe of R2 000 from a resident in Kenilworth, south of Johannesburg, City of Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba said in a statement. The suspect is expected to appear in the Johannesburg Magistrate's Court on Wednesday where he will be charged for corruption and extortion. It is alleged that the property's electricity bill is in arrears for about R320 000. The complainant alleged that, two weeks ago, power supply to the property was disconnected and the suspect demanded R2 000 in order for him to reconnect the power supply. The complainant allegedly told the suspect that she only had R1 000 and she would pay the rest at a later date. The suspect reconnected the electricity supply and collected the R1 000. Since then the suspect has been calling the complainant demanding the R1 000 balance. Also read: City Power contractors arrested after alleged bribery attempt The complainant then informed the City’s Group Forensic and Investigation Services (GFIS) team which set up a sting operation together with the members of the Hawks in terms of section 252A of the Criminal Procedure Act. "I would like to commend the resident who refused to be part of any corrupt activity and reported the matter to our team which acted swiftly to deal with the matter," Mashaba said. "Corruption has no place in this administration and we will work tirelessly, and in collaboration with law enforcement agencies, to ensure that the residents of Johannesburg receive the quality services they deserve. "I would also like to encourage people to report any fraud and corruption activities through our 24-hour tip-off hotline 0800 002 587 or visit the GFIS offices situated at 48 Ameshoff Street in Braamfontein," Mashaba said.  WATCH: Motorist refuses to 'pay' bribe for speeding A video of a Mpumalanga motorist confronting traffic officers after they allegedly asked him for a bribe has gone viral on social media. WATCH: OR Tambo Airport security 'accept' cash bribe Security officials at  OR Tambo International Airport are alleged to have accepted a cash bribe from a passenger on Saturday. WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. WATCH: City Power suspects "deliberate acts of sabotage" at South African substation Johannesburg City Power says they suspect that the cause of the explosion at the Rand Water Eikenhof Pumping Station was a "result of a deliberate act of sabotage". WATCH: 'We have nothing' - Vredenburg residents demand better service delivery On Tuesday, residents of Vredenburg in the Western Cape – who have had enough of living in what they described as a "dump" – took to the streets with sjamboks, sticks and knobkieries to demand better service delivery. WATCH: Roaring trade for some small businesses amidst load shedding gloom Last Sunday Eskom implemented load shedding for the first time since December 2019. While this has resulted in major inconvenience and loss of income for ordinary South Africans and most businesses, some are seeing a sharp increase in trade as a dire LISTEN: Eskom CFO Calib Cassim on the utility's woes Eskom CFO Calib Cassim weighs in on the power utility's unbundling and plans to manage its crippling financial crisis WATCH: Pravin Gordhan briefs South Africa on state of Eskom Eskom held a media briefing at 14:00 at Megawatt Park on Thursday to give an update on its operational challenges. WATCH: Worker takes Eskom labour brokers to court Witness Chauke is not afraid to speak truth to power. He says it was for this reason that his contract was terminated. He was the chairman of his group of (NUMSA) members at Eskom before his contract was terminated.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.