Kamva Somdyala Students erected shacks on the Bellville campus of the Cape Peninsula University of Technology to protest against a shortage of accommodation. (Ashraf Hendricks/GroundUp) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Two bus shuttles were torched and the administrative building was stoned during overnight protests at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology (CPUT) on Tuesday evening. In a statement, CPUT management confirmed the incidents. "The positive start to the 2019 academic programme has been dealt a blow after the institution was the victim of an arson attack overnight," the statement read. "Today (Wednesday), CPUT staff woke up to the news that two bus shuttles were torched and that the administrative building on the Bellville campus had been stoned. "This is demoralising for the dedicated staff who have already persevered through a traumatising crisis period since 2015." This comes as students protest over the lack of accommodation at the institution, with some building shacks to highlight the problem. READ: Students build shacks to protest against accommodation shortage CPUT spokesperson Lauren Kansley said vice-chancellor Dr Chris Nhlapo had established a task team to look specifically at student housing. Police spokesperson Captain FC van Wyk said they were investigating a case of malicious damage to property. No arrests have been made yet. "Currently, the situation is under control, the protesters have since dispersed and police officers are still deployed in the area to maintain law and order," said Van Wyk. GroundUp reported that classes were disrupted across the university's four campuses due to protests. GroundUp also quoted the institution's dean of student affairs Prem Coopoo as saying that the university could only accommodate one-third of the 35 000 students at CPUT. Classes 'continuing as normal' "Like other higher education institutions, we are not able to accommodate every single student who studies at CPUT." Kansley said on Wednesday classes were continuing as normal. "CPUT is operational across our campuses, excluding our Athlone campus, which is a satellite campus. Teaching will only resume there on February 18." On Tuesday, 21 people believed to be CPUT students were arrested in connection with public violence at the Athlone campus. According to GroundUp, there have been ongoing protests for the last week. Students' demands include running water in residence blocks where there is none, more security, and transport.  CPUT Bellville campus following arson attacks and vandalizing overnight after protest action linked to space at students residencies #CPUT @Sonkoerant pic.twitter.com/i3OxXB3Afh  #CPUT busses burned is a real cutting off your nose to spite your face. How will the students be transported now?Baffled by this! pic.twitter.com/p4Hz5vl7lj  At CPUT Athlone Campus 21 students have been arrested for protests relating to water and security. Students are robbed and sexuallly assaulted daily due to ease of access to their residences.This is primarily a nursing campus. The ANC does not know how to run a country. pic.twitter.com/FcrYnlUh9I    It's time to involve the entire security cluster - Blade Nzimande after latest Cape Town train fire Firefighters have arrived at Cape Town train station to battle yet another train-related blaze after thick, black smoke permeated the air above the station on Tuesday. WATCH: High speed N1 Cape Town crash leaves BMW driver critical Video of a BMW crashing into a barrier on the N1 in Cape Town and spinning out of control has gone viral online. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits. WATCH: 'A fairy-tale day' as homeless couple exchanges wedding vows A dream came true for Llewellyn Jenniker and Cecilia Jenniker on Tuesday when the homeless couple, who've been living together on the streets for decades, finally tied the knot. WATCH: This young Khayelitsha artist used drawing to escape drugs and alcohol abuse Luvo Khehla, a second-year graphics design student at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology, says art helped him escape a life of drug and alcohol abuse. WATCH: MyCiTi employees' 'wildcat' strike continued on Tuesday A "wildcat" strike by MyCiTi employees appeared to enter its second day on Tuesday as the bus service announced disruptions on several routes around Cape Town. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. VIDEO: 'We pay R2 to use mall toilets' – Cape Town informal settlement residents demand basic servic Five Cape Town communities joined with social justice movements to march to the Cape Town Civic Centre on Thursday. 

The protesters expressed exasperation over the lack of basic services in informal settlements in the city. WATCH: Zille breaks ground on R3bn mixed-income residential project Western Cape Premier Helen Zille said the "pioneering" housing project expected at the site of the derelict old Conradie Hospital in Cape Town could "make or break" the current housing system. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. WATCH: TUT students march to the police ministry over student death Chaos erupted on Wednesday as around 300 students marched through the Pretoria CBD protesting over the death of a student who was allegedly shot by police last week.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.