Nomzamo Yuku @Nomzamoyuku One of the placards learners held during the launch. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Plumstead High School in partnership with the newly found School Revival non-profit organisation (NPO) launched an anti-bullying campaign on Friday 1 February. The launch started with a group of learners standing by the fence holding placards with messages against bullying. They then proceeded to the assembly where the founder of the NPO, Verline Leo, and teachers and guests explained bullying and its consequences to the learners. Learners also got an opportunity to speak about the topic, with two of them confessing to being survivors of bullying. Leo said: “We were stunned by the two brave learners who came forward to admit having experienced bullying and how it affected them. We hope that inspired other learners to open up as well. With the campaign we aim to tackle it with love and teach ethics, care and respect for each other. “We even made an example about those learners who sit in the corner alone and never talk. We told them they can start by inviting them to come along to the tuck-shop or just sit with them. In this way we can collectively change their mindsets and be able to eradicate bullying.” Leo said the campaign is going to involve schools from various communities and will also host different programmes where they hope to be able to engage the department of education and other stakeholders and speak in one voice. With this said, they plan to have a big inter-schools dialogue and an anti-bullying campaign concert towards the end of the year. Craig George, the school principal, said the campaign had a good start as learners seemed comfortable about the topic. He admitted that although he is not aware of any recent incidents at the school, bullying, including cyberbullying, is still a serious issue in schools. “Our focus is to teach about anti-bullying with love, hence we are encouraging all schools to participate in our competition that challenges them to create a mural with messages against bullying.” Hurriah Lekoto, a learner, said she liked the campaign because it created a comfortable platform to speak out. She said it is necessary to get involved in these campaigns because “bullying is real.” V 
  For more information about the competition email schoolrevival007@gmail.com.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.