Velani Ludidi, GroundUp Students erected shacks on the Bellville campus of the Cape Peninsula University of Technology to protest against a shortage of accommodation.  (Ashraf Hendricks) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Students at Cape Peninsula University of Technology (CPUT) have put up shacks on the Bellville campus to highlight problems with accommodation, GroundUp reports. Last week, classes were disrupted at the university's four campuses as students protested. The shacks were first erected on Monday afternoon after the students were evicted from a conference room where they had been staying. Mlahleki Mahoana from Ficksburg in the Free State says the students have nowhere else to go. "We find ourselves in this situation because the university refuses to accommodate us and they closed the conference room saying it is not a place to sleep. Where should we go?" Security guards demolished the shacks, but the students brought more material and built again. "We are not disturbing any campus activities by erecting these structures. We have classes to attend but we must still fight for accommodation. We have to wait at the housing department all day for the release of names. If you are in class, your room is given to someone else," says Mahoana. ALSO READ: Academic activities at TUT campuses remain suspended First-year student Kwandiwe Dadlana says the university gives priority to female students and accommodation for men is hard to find. "These structures are to show the situation we find ourselves in as black students in this crime scene called South Africa." He said if the university did not open new residences, the students would build structures in offices. SRC chairperson Yamkela Nompetsheni supported the students' demands. "CPUT has taken no action to attend [to] student grievances," he said. "We sat with the management and came to an agreement that students will be placed, but they did not honour the agreement." READ MORE: Students are protesting – again. Why it needn't be this way Dean of Student Affairs Prem Coopoo said the university could only provide accommodation for one third of the 35 000 students at CPUT. "Over the past year, we have increased our beds by 11.5%. The lack of student housing is a national issue. Like other higher education institutions, we are not able to accommodate every single student who studies at CPUT. "We allocate accommodation to those students who applied on time, are registered and who meet residence admission criteria. We cannot place students who applied late or not at all, although we have committed to contacting late applicants if beds become available." She also said the university was spending R35m to upgrade two of the largest residences in Bellville (Freedom Square) and Cape Town (St Peters). "The downside is that this renovation contributes to the lack of beds for 2019. However, other leased and accredited student accommodation has been secured to partially offset this. CPUT will have more beds from mid-year." WATCH: Protesting students bring learning to a standstill at Wits The start of classes and daily administration operations were delayed at the University of the Witwatersrand on Thursday, after the student representative council (SRC) continued with protest action. VIDEO: 'We pay R2 to use mall toilets' – Cape Town informal settlement residents demand basic servic Five Cape Town communities joined with social justice movements to march to the Cape Town Civic Centre on Thursday. 

The protesters expressed exasperation over the lack of basic services in informal settlements in the city. WATCH: TUT students march to the police ministry over student death Chaos erupted on Wednesday as around 300 students marched through the Pretoria CBD protesting over the death of a student who was allegedly shot by police last week. WATCH: Queuing won't guarantee university admission The University of Johannesburg is urging prospective students to register online Instead of queuing on campus. WATCH: University of Limpopo, South Africa, students walk out of philosophy test University of Limpopo students this week walked out of an Educational Philosophy test. WATCH: Suicide scourge forces students to march for better mental health support Around 100 students held a silent march through the University of Pretoria's main campus on Thursday.

This follows 23 reported attempted suicides by students at the institution in 2018 alone.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.