Ntwaagae Seleka Police. (Photo: Getty/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Eastern Cape police suspect that a mob of people in Motherwell who were hell-bent on taking revenge for the death of a 60-year-old woman, killed two men by setting them alight. It has prompted the Motherwell Cluster Commander, Major General Dawie Rabie, to appeal to the community to respect citizens' constitutional rights and to rather "work closely with police and structures, such as the Community Police Forums and Sector Policing Forums, by sharing information". "Persons taking part in vigilante killings immediately become killers themselves. We will not tolerate these murders and will arrest and institute murder prosecution against such persons," said Rabie. Police spokesperson Captain Andre Beetge said the family of Andile Mtana, 23, reported to police that a group of people had kidnapped him on Thursday night. His charred remains were found at about 02:30 on Friday. "Another man was also kidnapped in Motherwell. The unknown man was also taken to the bushes, killed and burnt. His charred body was found at about 08:00 on Friday morning – a kilometre away from where Mtana's remains were found," said Beegte. The identity of the other man has not yet been confirmed. "It is speculated that the possible motive behind the killings is that the community suspected the two deceased had killed 60-year-old Nomathemba Goliath. Goliath's body was found on Thursday at about 07:00 in her house in Mbayisa Street, Shuku Shukuma. "Police suspect that Goliath was suffocated to death with a towel as well as possibly being raped. These vigilante murders follow just two days after the very same community was addressed on the same topic during an awareness imbizo that was conducted at the NU30 community hall," said Beegte.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.