Sesona Ngqakamba (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Two pupils involved in a scuffle at a Centurion school have been placed on precautionary suspension. This is after a video of an altercation between a schoolboy and a schoolgirl was shared on social media. In the video the boy, dressed in grey pants and blue jersey, is seen hitting the girl. He then throws her to the ground. Other pupils attempt to separate the two as the boy continues to hit the girl as she lies on the ground. According to the Gauteng education department, the scuffle occurred on Friday, February 15, during a lunch break at Lyttleton Manor High School. "Both parents of the implicated learners were called to the school to discuss the disciplinary processes. Preliminary investigations revealed that it was the girl learner who instigated the fight by attacking the boy learner, who retaliated as a result, as seen on the video," education spokesperson Steve Mabona said. He said a psychosocial team was dispatched to the school for necessary support to all who were affected by the incident. Provincial education MEC Panyaza Lesufi condemned the incident, saying such behaviour would not be tolerated in schools. "Ill-discipline will never be allowed to persist in our schooling environment," he said. "We urge all our learners to refrain from acts of misconduct in schools and implore parents to assist the department in instilling learner discipline in and outside the school environment," said Lesufi. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. WATCH: 10-year-old whizz-kid solves complex maths problems in just seconds 10-year-old Sbahle Zwane was in pre-school when his teacher first noticed his extraordinary gift with numbers. The Grade 4 learner first gained popularity for his impressive mental maths skills after videos of him went viral on social media. WATCH. WATCH: Little Maths genius scores prestigious scholarship In September, 2018, News24 interviewed 10-year-old math genius, Sbahle Zwane.
One month later, the Zwane family received news that Sbahle had been granted a scholarship at the prestigious Curro Academy in Protea Glen, Soweto. WATCH.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.