Kamva Somdyala Shark Spotters have released a report following trends and shark movement over the last ten years.

PHOTO: 
Nasief Manie/ Foto24 Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A new automated shark detection project aimed at developing a low-cost computer-aided vision shark detection algorithm to be used on fixed cameras above Cape Town's beaches has been launched, the City of Cape Town announced on Tuesday. The Shark Spotters and the Institute for Communities and Wildlife in Africa at the University of Cape Town in partnership with Switzerland-based research and development company PatternLab Sarl are all collaborators in the project to improve beach water safety. According to the City of Cape Town, the Shark Spotters programme has significantly improved water user safety at its operating beaches in Cape Town, having recorded more than  2 000 shark sightings since its inception in 2004. Limitations "The development of the automated shark spotting system will build upon this strong foundation and help overcome some of the limitations the programme currently experiences including the need for natural elevation and the potential for human fatigue and error," the statement read. "Shark Spotters has been at the forefront of sustainable shark bite mitigation measures worldwide since it started in 2004," said Western Cape MEC for spatial planning and environment Marian Nieuwoudt. READ: 'We're not prey to sharks' - proactive shark spotters initiative going swimmingly Nieuwoudt said the province was excited by the possibilities the new system would present and hoped "it will result in a system that enhances shark safety at beaches across the city". Field work on the project has begun in Fish Hoek and involves the collection of footage of sharks for analysis and the development of cutting-edge detection algorithm software. Decoy shark A decoy shark is also being used due to the sporadic and unreliable nature of shark sightings. The City has made it clear that the automated system will not replace the spotters employed in Cape Town, but will be used to assist them with more reliable and accurate shark detection. The research project will run for a total of 18 months after which it is anticipated an effective automated shark spotting system will have been developed for use in Cape Town and beyond. WATCH: Pet dog dies in Sea Point apartment block blaze A Sea Point apartment was destroyed in a high-rise fire that was put out before it spread to the rest of the building on Wednesday. WATCH: Shark spotters: proactive initiative going swimmingly Naveron Lesch is on the lookout for the ocean's most dominant predator, one fully-trained member of a team of 30 Shark Spotters, a proactive early warning shark safety service operating on eight of Cape Town's beaches. Boulders Beach - Home of the African Penguin It is one of the world's most Instagrammed beaches. It is nature at its most pristine. And you can even swim with penguins. WATCH: Beached whale was 'suffering, in process of dying' "We may never know why the animal was stranded," Lieze Swart of the Department of Environmental Affairs (Oceans and Coasts) told News24, after an 11m sub-adult Humpback whale beached at Yzerfontein earlier this week. Where to find the world's most crystal-clear water paradise spots Love island life? Here's where to find the world's bluest, blue waters. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.