Jenni Evans Enver Surty (Jenni Evans, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Concerns about safety at schools arose in Parliament's Portfolio Committee on Education on Tuesday where Deputy Education Minister Enver Surty suggested that school governing bodies (SGBs) should have safety committees. "There is also a need for a more personal link between police stations and schools for synergy between the two," he told the committee. Surty said the department was concerned about violence at schools, assaults on teachers, a lack of discipline by some pupils, and the discovery of drugs and alcohol at schools. READ: Western Cape parents urged to participate in school governing body elections WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. "We are working closely with the police," he said. In the meantime, more than 15 000 schools have been "adopted" by SA Police Service stations as part of the Adopt-a-School programme. As part of the programme, police form close bonds with schools and talk to pupils about social problems such as drug abuse to reduce crime and violence in schools and in communities. Surty's calls come amid a furore over a disagreement between a teacher and pupil at Sans Souci Girls' High School in Cape Town, and the alleged rape of four primary school boys at a school in the Cape Winelands area. READ MORE: Video shows Sans Souci pupils hugging teacher after physical altercation "Every SGB must have a safety sub-committee," urged Surty. Briefing the committee, he said 60 million workbooks had been delivered since the start of the 2019 school year for almost 13 million enrolled pupils and 433 000 teachers. The biggest problem was placing pupils who did not register on paper or online and who arrived at a school for a place. He said Gauteng's use of technology for online applications proved to be highly successful and should be replicated in other provinces. WATCH: Holy Cross primary in Cape Town on fire Firefighters were called out to Holy Cross RC Primary School in the Cape Town CBD after plumes of smoke were seen emanating from the premises. WATCH: Hundreds gather for emotional night vigil at Hoërskool Driehoek Hundreds of people gathered at Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark for an emotional night vigil, after a concrete slab collapsed at the school, killing three children and seriously injuring 25 others. WATCH: Khayelitsha school bids to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place Chairperson of Enkanini Primary's School Governing Body Andile Lili shows what the school is doing in a bid to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place at the school in Khayelitsha WATCH: SA Human Rights Commission reacts to the Hoërskool Driehoek tragedy The SA Human Rights Commission will launch a probe into a walkway collapse at a high school in Vanderbijlpark, that killed four children last week. WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral. WATCH: This 30-year-old family business is a school hotspot for Joburg families Gauteng schools open on Wednesday and parents are on the hunt for affordable school uniforms. WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg. WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. WATCH: This father says outsourcing at Eskom is hurting his kids' future When Tshepang's* first child was born, he dropped out of school to seek work. He has worked as a contractor at various state entities. His current contract sees his salary filtered through two labour broking companies before it reaches him. WATCH: Suspected Pretoria burglar caught breaking into school A 30-year-old suspect was arrested while breaking into a Pretoria Primary School on Wednesday morning.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.