Riaan Grobler Senzo Meyiwa. (Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Rumours doing the rounds on social media on Monday morning that an arrest has been made for the murder of Bafana Bafana goalkeeper Senzo Meyiwa in 2014 are false, say police. "It is fake news," national police spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo told News24. "We (the police) will make an official announcement should there be any new developments in the investigation," Naidoo said. Meyiwa was shot dead in October 2014 at his girlfriend Kelly Khumalo's house in Vosloorus. No arrest has been made to date. Last year, Police Minister Bheki Cele ordered the reopening of investigations into high-profile murders, including that of Meyiwa, City Press reported. According to the latest rumour, music mogul Chicco Twala's son, Longwe Twala – who was present on the day of the murder – had been arrested. "This is not the case," Naidoo said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: 'It looked like a toy gun, he was so calm about it' - Eyewitness describes Mihalik murder WATCH: 'It looked like a toy gun, he was so calm about it' - Eyewitness describes Mihalik murder Part 2 | WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifie Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Tuesday WATCH: Murder-accused Packham to spend Christmas in jail Murder-accused Rob Packham's bail was withdrawn for contacting witnesses and he was ordered to stay in custody until his trial in March over the death of his wife, the Western Cape High Court ruled on Thursday. WATCH: Jason Rohde guilty of murder; bail denied (full stream) Jason Rohde has been found guilty of the murder of his wife Susan by the Western Cape High Court on Thursday. WATCH: Heavy police escort for Mihalik accused Three people appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Thursday on charges for the murder of top advocate Pete Mihalik. WATCH: Siam Lee's mother breaks down as details of her death heard in court Siam Lee's mother Carmen Nans Lee says she wasn't expecting to hear details of her child's murder on Wednesday. WATCH: Jason Rohde sentencing gets underway Murder accused Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings got underway in the Western Cape Western Cape High Court on Wednesday November 21. WATCH: Life sentences for Hannah Cornelius' murderers The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. WATCH: Two farm workers accused of killing Coligny teen found guilty Two farm workers accused of killing a 15-year-old Coligny teen were found guilt of murder in the North West High Court in Mahikeng on Wednesday. Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues cross-examination (Day2/Part2) WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State is continuing its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues cross-examination (Day2/Part1) WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State is continuing its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders. WATCH: Three accused of murdering Mihalik appear in court The three men accused of Pete Mihalik's murder - Vuyile Maliti, Sinozokohle Biyela and Nkosinathi Khumalo - appear in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Friday 15 February 2019. #ReleaseMartha: Son of murdered husband threatens to take matters into own hands Relatives of Martha Marumo's deceased husband say if she receives a presidential pardon for the murder of Clitus Marumo, "something is going to happen". WATCH LIVE: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifies | Part 4 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. WATCH: Brother of slain Durban businessman says they will not accept an apology "We won't accept an apology from a hitman," said the family of a Durban businessman whose murder was caught on camera in August.

Kidesh Ramjettan was killed execution style in August in a hit at his petrol station in Rossburgh, south of Durban. WATCH: Courtney Pieters' killer gets two life sentences for her rape, murder The Western Cape High Court has sentenced Mortimer Saunders to two life sentences for the rape and murder of 3-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, continues her testimony | Part 2 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. WATCH LIVE: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifies | Part 3 WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. WATCH: Two police officers charged with murder of TUT student granted bail Two police officers were granted bail at the Soshanguve Magistrates Court on Tuesday. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. MOMENT OF TRUTH: Jason Rohde found guilty of murder Jason Rohde was found guilty of the murder of his wife Susan by the Western Cape High Court on Thursday. He was also found guilty of obstructing the ends of justice. 

Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe delivered her judgment in under two hours. WATCH: Marinda Steyn takes the stand in Krugersdorp murder trial WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

The State finished its cross-examination of Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.