Correspondent iStock Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Congregants of the Volle Evangeliese Kerk van God in eMalahleni (Witbank) are convinced that they witnessed a woman being raised from the dead by a pastor, Rapport reported. The incident reportedly took place two weeks ago. Tracey Forsyth, who is described by Rapport as elderly, and who suffers from diabetes and high blood pressure, reportedly had an "incident" during the service that left her lying breathless on the church bench. People tried to wake her up while others prayed. WATCH: This pastor is going viral for talking to 'God' on the phone during a church service However, when visiting pastor Deon Hockey placed his hands on her and prayed, she reportedly woke up and started breathing, according to some congregants, who are convinced she was woken from the dead. But the pastor himself is not as convinced. Hockey told Rapport that there was no medical evidence that she had died. "She coincidentally woke up when I touched her, that is all," he told the paper.  Pastor Deon Hockey (left) at work at his church. (Facebook) Some congregants, however, are convinced that they witnessed a miracle and that this was a case of divine intervention. Forsyth would not comment. Hockey is famed for healing through prayer, according to his Facebook page, where he has posted videos of people being "healed" from blindness, deafness and even cancer. Social media users differed on the issue, with some affirming that a miracle had taken place, while others ridiculed the notion. South Africa has no shortage of unconventional pastors. The so-called "Doom Pastor" of Mount Zion General Assembly Church, Prophet Rabalago made headlines in 2016 after pictures surfaced on Facebook of him spraying Doom on his congregations. According to News24, he claimed the act of spraying Doom was to heal his followers and cast out demons.The prophet was later taken to court – where he was accompanied by his bodyguards and church members singing, "Ha reso bone mathata he Doom e teng [We have not seen challenges with Doom]." Prophet Mnguni of End Times Disciples Ministries in Soshanguve, Pretoria, is well-known for his act of feeding his followers snakes – which he claims turn into chocolates.According to eNCA, the 24-year-old pastor also claimed to have turned his church members into snakes in May 2017 and he asked members to get naked before praying to him. Pastoor meen vrou was eintlik net “flou”, maar gemeente sê sy het van die dood teruggekeer, skryf ?@AngolaBadprop?. https://t.co/CwpxyG460o  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Pope Francis wraps up historic visit to UAE after peninsula's first-ever papal Mass Pope Francis is heading back to the Vatican aboard 'Shepherd One', after historic visit to the UAE. Faith healer accused of sexual abuse turns himself in A Brazilian faith healer who was accused of sexual abuse by more than 300 women has turned himself in a day after being officially ruled a fugitive. Dutch church prayer service wins asylum for migrants A 96-day long prayer service to prevent an Armenian family being deported from the Netherlands ended on Wednesday, after the government agreed to make an exception to immigration rules. LGBT churchgoers in Kenya pray for change The Cosmopolitan Affirming Church (CAC) is a rare space where Kenya's LGBT community can escape hostility from society, which is often reflected in hatred and vitriol from religious pulpits. Congregants of the church will be praying ahead of Frida... Worshippers at mosque get their blood pumping with post-prayer gym class The faithful at a mosque in the Iraqi Kurdish town of Halabja have been keeping fit after prayer thanks to regular exercise classes inside the holy building. Trump vows to protect believers at prayer breakfast President Donald Trump says he will always protect people of faith, as he addresses the National Prayer Breakfast in Washington. Vigil held for GM workers whose plant is to close General Motors workers gathered for a prayer vigil Friday outside a suburban Detroit plant scheduled for closure. Senators pray Trump will sign border deal Republican Sen. Chuck Grassley says he's praying that President Trump will sign the border security deal into law to prevent a government shutdown. Sen. Lindsey Graham seemed to have more faith than that, saying Trump is "inclined to sign it." Thousands pray at Shanghai temple at start of Lunar New Year Thousands pray for good fortune in the Year of the Pig at Longhua Temple in Shanghai, ushering in the Lunar New Year with prayers. Venezuelans in Colombia protest against Maduro at the border Venezuelan migrants living in Colombia protest against the government of President Nicolas Maduro during a march that ended in a prayer for peace and freedom for their country on the Simon Bolivar International Bridge, at the border between the tw... Mass prayer one week after tsunami in Indonesia A week after the tsunami, thousands of Indonesian Muslims attend a mass prayer to remember the victims and pray for the safety of their tsunami-prone hometown. Car smashes into church during Sunday services Authorities in Ohio say six people were treated for injuries after a car smashed through a church wall and shattered stained glass during Sunday morning services. A Dutch church is holding a marathon service to block a family's Christmas deportation Worshippers at a church in the Netherlands have been holding round-the-clock prayer services for more than six weeks to prevent an Armenian family from being deported, hoping for a Christmas miracle. Joe Cole wins 'Best Actor' at the 2018 British Independent Film Awards The actor took the prize home thanks to his performance on 'A Prayer Before Dawn'. Spiritual healer loses everything to California wildfires A spiritual healer who had a meditation centre in a teepee, after swapping the rat race to live in the hills of California, is trusting in mystical forces to help rebuild her life after losing everything in the devastating wildfires.

Despite seei... Loved ones mourn Khashoggi after Riyadh seeks to execute five suspects Family and friends of Jamal Khashoggi said funeral prayers in Saudi Arabia and Turkey on Friday (November 16) for the Saudi journalist killed by agents of his own government, in a case that has sparked a global outcry and mired the kingdom in crisis. Families hold mass prayer at sea for Indonesia jet crash victims Grieving relatives pray at the spot where a Lion Air jet plunged into the sea as revelations over the jet's malfunctioning air speed indicator raised fresh questions about the cause of the accident. Kim Kardashian praying for injured photographer Kim Kardashian has sent her prayers to her personal photographer Marcus Hyde after he was hospitalised after a major car crash and suffered a critical head injury. France's first female cantor Traditionally, cantors, the musical prayer leaders in synagogues, are men. Sofia Falkovitch wants that to change. She was the first woman in Europe to train for the position. Now she proudly takes her place at the front of the synagogue. Pope blames Satan for church sex abuse crisis The devil is alive and well and working overtime to undermine the Roman Catholic Church, according to Pope Francis, and is responsible for the Church's sexual abuse crisis. Family & Celebs attend Krishna Raj Kapoor's Prayer Meet The Kapoor family here on Thursday organised a prayer meet for Krishna Raj Kapoor, wife of late legendary actor Raj Kapoor, where a galaxy of stars and others from Bollywood were present. Kareena Kapoor Khan, Saif Ali Khan, Karisma Kapoor, Reema J... Ajay Devgn as 'Taanaji - The Unsung Warrior' Begins Actor Ajay Devgn has started shooting for Om Raut's film "Taanaji - The Unsung Warrior". The 49-year-old actor on Tuesday took to Twitter to share the first picture from the muhurat shot as he kickstarted the shooting. In the image, Ajay can be se... Jennifer Hudson to perform Amazing Grace at Aretha Franklin funeral Jennifer Hudson will sing 'Amazing Grace' at Aretha Franklin's funeral, and Stevie Wonder will do a rendition of 'The Lord's Prayer'. Thousands of couples marry in mass wedding About 4,000 couples married at a mass wedding in South Korea. The ceremony was hosted by the Unification Church that regularly holds mass ceremonies around the world. Cat hotel offers stay in the lap of luxury To celebrate International Cat Day we take a look at a high-class cat hotel that is increasing in popularity. Amitabh, Randhir pays last respect to Industrialist Rajan Nanda Amitabh Bachchan's daughter Shweta Bachchan Nanda's father-in-law Rajan Nanda has passed away. Though none from the Bachchan family gave a statement regarding the same, but on Tuesday they were seen paying their respect at his prayer meet. Where A... Royal Yet Modern, Kangana & Aditi DAZZLES at India Couture Week 2018 Actresses Aditi Rao Hydari and Kangana Ranaut added Bollywood glamour to bespoke couture ensembles of designers Tarun Tahiliani and Anju Modi respectively on the opening night of the India Couture Week (ICW) in New Delhi on Wednesday. Kangana clos... Movie Hit List In cinemas soon: 'The Spy Who Dumped Me', 'A Prayer Before Dawn', 'The Predator', 'Wonder Park' Long recovery ahead for mom in Missouri tragedy A mother faces a long recovery after losing her husband, children and extended family in the Missouri boat tragedy. Thai cave rescue: A country in prayer Rescuers have been searching for a group of boys who went to explore a cave with their football coach. Stormzy: Black music 'the most popping thing right now' Stormzy has welcomed the recognition being given to young black musicians as he attended a prestigious music ceremony to honour songwriting. Twitter reacts to Bishop Michael Curry Twitter reacts to the sermon given by the Most Rev Bishop Michael Curry, the first black presiding bishop and primate of the Episcopal Church at the royal wedding. 'Power of love': US bishop wows with address Bishop Curry of the US Episcopal Church gave the address at Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's wedding. American Bishop to give address at Prince Harry's wedding to Meghan Markle Prince Harry and Meghan Markle have invited the head of the Episcopal Church, Most Reverend Michael Bruce Curry to deliver the sermon at their upcoming royal wedding and he's accepted! Justin Bieber reshaping his sound for new album to reflect spirituality Justin Bieber is reportedly searching for songs that reflect his renewed Christian faith for his new album. The 24-year-old 'Sorry' singer is currently working on his fifth studio album. How this church plans to fight a gunman As places of worship have become targets, training sessions are meant to increase readiness.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.