Jenni Evans SA police. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories One person was shot after live ammunition and
rubber bullets were fired on Friday as two different blocs of protesters
clashed in Vryheid, KwaZulu-Natal. The SA Police Service's Major Thulani Zwane said
three people sustained injuries. "One had a gunshot wound and the other
two had assault wounds." All three were taken to a nearby hospital. A case of public violence has been opened and one
person has been arrested. According to Zwane, the clash left upturned dustbins
and rubbish strewn across roads in the town, situated in the AbaQulusi Local
Municipality. "They blocked the road," said
Zwane. About 1 000 people participated in the marches, he
said. ANC spokesperson for the province, Nomagugu
Simelane-Zulu, said one march was held to protest against indigent people not
receiving municipal services they were entitled to. "The IFP municipality is not providing the
services that are required. People wanted a response," she said. Simelane-Zulu said the march was apolitical and led
by the community as a whole - not just the party she represented. VRYHEID. KZN. pic.twitter.com/3bpH77Evmh She alleged that a group of IFP supporters
disrupted the march, injuring some people. IFP spokesperson Mkhuleko Hlengwa said the opposite
was true. He said the IFP had applied for, and was granted,
permission for a march to the court house to drop a memorandum off which was
related to the arrest of three ANC officials. The Vryheid Herald reported that it was to
"fast track" a court case involving three ANC officials. The council is currently embroiled in a matter
involving three senior ANC officials from the municipality who are accused of
corruption-related crimes. READ: 3 ANC officials who allegedly offered DA councillor bribe
out on bailThey were arrested last year by the Hawks after allegedly offering a Democratic
Alliance councillor a R20 000 bribe and a job, reportedly to sway a vote of no
confidence in the IFP council. Hlengwa said the ANC, "under the guise of a
community march", disrupted the IFP march. UPDATE (VIDEO): Vryheid police used rubber bullets and stun grenades to disperse protestors in the CBD today. The angry mob left tears, trauma, damaged vehicles, and rubbish strewn all over the streets in their wake.https://t.co/1fawIw7HwB pic.twitter.com/ttf6BytwIm The region is close to politically sensitive towns
Nkandla, Nongoma and Ulundi. Hlengwa said the ANC was trying to bring IFP-run
municipalities to their knees through such actions. "We condemn this confrontation by the
ANC," he said.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.