Jenni Evans (File, Getty/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A man has been shot dead while dropping his child off at school in Mitchells Plain, Cape Town on Wednesday morning. Western Cape Education Department (WCED) spokesperson Jessica Shelver said the man was killed around 07:50, outside Woodville Primary School in Woodlands. "A teacher who was on scholar patrol and witnessed the incident is deeply traumatised. Two school psychologists are at the school to provide counselling and support," she said. The department has asked the police to increase visibility in the area, especially when school comes out later on Wednesday. "Our heartfelt condolences go to the learners who have lost their father, to the rest of the family and the school community." Speaking on condition of anonymity, a school employee said that schooling was continuing, although not "as normal". Parents who could, fetched their children, while children who relied on public transport to get home, or who only had a carer available at home after school, stayed behind. READ: Slain lawyer Pete Mihalik to be laid to rest In October, well-known lawyer Pete Mihalik was shot dead while taking his children to school in Sea Point. Police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana said the Anti-Gang Unit was investigating the shooting and had established that there were two shooters. She said none of the other occupants of the vehicle had been injured. According to reports, the 37-year-old victim was dropping his children at a school when he was approached by two armed suspects who shot at him. The man was fatally wounded. A case of murder has been opened for investigation, with no arrests so far.  EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. WATCH: Armed thieves attack cash-in-transit guards in Krugersdorp A money truck was attacked by armed thieves after guards were collecting money from a filling station in Kagiso on Monday. WATCH: Thieves ambush and rob sleeping truck driver A video of a truck driver valiantly fighting off a suspected robber who broke into his truck while he was sleeping inside has surfaced on social media. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.