Jeanette Chabalala Executive director of the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) Robert McBride. (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Civil
society organisations Corruption Watch and The Helen Suzman Foundation (HSF) have
applied to be admitted as friends of the court (amicus curiae) in proceedings
instituted by the executive director of the Independent Police Investigative
Directorate (IPID), Robert McBride, against Minister of Police Bheki Cele. McBride has filed an urgent
application asking the Gauteng High Court in Pretoria to declare Cele's
decision not to renew his appointment as IPID executive director as
"unconstitutional, unlawful and invalid". In an affidavit, HSF director
Francis Antonie states that the foundation has an interest in the proceedings
"owing to the fact that IPID is an indispensable body in the fight
against, inter alia, corruption against organised crime". ALSO READ: 'IPID will not grind to a halt without' McBride, Cele says in court papers Antonie says their submission
will provide critical insight into why the decision to renew a term of office
should not be taken by any "political actor". "This is necessary to ensure
adequate protection of the structural, operational and institutional independence
of IPID against political, executive and other interference… "The
HSF's submissions will thus assist the court by demonstrating why granting the
decision-making power to renew a term of office of the executive director of
IPID to a political actor, including members of the executive or Parliamentary
Portfolio Committees, unlawfully infringes the independence of the IPID." Antonie also states that Cele
seeks to place his office at the centre of the renewal process, and that
simultaneously he seeks to distance himself from the importance of such a role. 'Not what the IPID Act envisages' In a curt letter dated January
24, Cele informed McBride that he had forwarded his decision not to renew
McBride's contract, to Parliament for consideration. But Corruption Watch argues that
it is in support of the relief sought by McBride in which he asks the Portfolio
Committee of Police to make a determination on the renewal of his term of
office before his contract expires at the end of February this year. The organisation submits that the
decision and process on how a new appointment should be made cannot be left so
late as to when the current incumbent's contract lapses. "If the executive director's
term of office lapses, Parliament would have created a vacancy through its own
unlawful conduct by failing to exercise proper oversight over the appointment
of a new ED. It is self-evident that this is not what the IPID Act
envisages." The organisation states that the
creation of a vacancy cannot stem from improper oversight. Meanwhile, in papers filed in the
Gauteng High Court in Pretoria, Cele argues that McBride's application to fight
for his job is premature and moot. Cele also said: "IPID will
not grind to a halt without him. An acting director will do just fine while the
National Assembly and the portfolio committee decides whether to confirm or
reject my preliminary decision." 'Unquestionably urgent' matter Cele said if his decision was
confirmed, the post would be advertised and that nothing was stopping McBride
from applying. He also added that if his
preliminary decision was rejected, then McBride's term would be renewed, and he
would still get his full five-year term. Cele also denied that he had
"prevented" the portfolio committee from making a decision on whether
or not to renew McBride's term. However, in his affidavit,
McBride states: "In light of the minister's conduct and given that my term
of office expires on 28 February 2019, I have been left with no option but to
approach the court for urgent relief." He said this was necessary to
ensure that the portfolio committee was given the opportunity to consider and
make a determination on whether his term of office should be renewed. "The matter is
unquestionably urgent," McBride said. "It is critical that the
portfolio committee decides the matter before 28 February 2019. If this does
not occur then my term of office will lapse due to the minister's unlawful and
unconstitutional conduct."  WATCH: Gift of the Givers brings Christmas cheer to families of slain police officers Gift of the Givers and Minister Bheki Cele brought Christmas cheer to families of slain police officers on Tuesday.
The families of the 96 officers killed in the line of duty in 2018 were given food parcels and wheelchairs. WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. WATCH: Bheki Cele visits family of Gift of the Givers volunteer killed in gang shooutout Police Minister Bheki Cele paid a visit to the family of Ameerodien Noordien, the Gift of the Givers volunteer who was killed in gang crossfire in Hanover Park, Cape Town. WATCH: Ramaphosa responds to the call for an intervention in Cape Flats gangsterism President Cyril Ramaphosa and Police Minister Bheki Cele formally launched the anti-gang unit in an effort to disorganise and disable the criminal economy linked to gangsterism in Hanover Park and surrounding areas. Mini Budget 2018: Bheki Ntshalintshali Newly-minted Finance Minister Tito Mboweni delivered his maiden medium term budget policy statement in Parliament on Wednesday afternoon. WATCH: Rolex gang strikes again? A motorist was robbed in Morningside, Sandton on Tuesday and it might be the work of the notorious Rolex gang.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.