Tammy Petersen Scene of the accident. (Supplied, Kenny Africa) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A horror crash on the N2 between Botrivier and Caledon on Friday is understood to have claimed the life of Springbok fullback Gysie Pienaar’s daughter. Rene O'Ehley was killed in the collision. Western Cape traffic chief Kenny Africa confirmed that a woman driving a VW Polo died in the crash, which involved three other vehicles – two Mercedes trucks and a Hilux bakkie. READ:At least 13 dead as vehicles catch fire after horror N2 crash The Polo collided with one of the trucks head-on. O'Ehley, the sister of former Springbok and Sharks player Ruan Pienaar, lived in Bredasdorp and taught at Bredasdorp Primary. Messages of condolences were on Saturday being posted on both Gysie and O'Ehley’s husband Edmund’s profiles. WATCH: Passenger in BMW horror crash 'a real possibility' New footage of the horrific crash which saw street racer Taufiq Carr crash his speeding BMW M3 on the N1 in Cape Town last week indicate that a passenger may have been in the car. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma's culpable homicide trial postponed to March The culpable homicide case against Duduzane Zuma was postponed to March 26 in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday. Woman in critical condition after Audi horror crash A woman is in a critical condition after the Audi she was traveling in veered off the road, became airborne and slammed into a sign post, emergency services have said. VIDEO: New footage shows devastation after Cape Town N1 high speed crash New footage of the crashed BMW on the N1 in Cape Town has emerged on social media, this time showing the aftermath of the incident. WATCH: High speed N1 Cape Town crash leaves BMW driver critical Video of a BMW crashing into a barrier on the N1 in Cape Town and spinning out of control has gone viral online. WATCH: South African paramedic dies in helicopter crash in the UAE A South African paramedic is among four people who died when a helicopter crashed in Ras al-Khaimah in the north eastern region of the United Arab Emirates. WATCH: Limpopo accident leaves 26 dead, among them 2 children Two children are among the 26 people who died in a horror multi-vehicle collision on the N1 in Mookgopong outside Modimolle, Limpopo, on Friday.

Four people survived the crash and were taken to various hospitals for medical treatment. WATCH: Oh beer! Crates of alcohol crash out of beer truck in Cape Town It was unhappy hour for a truck driver who lost a huge load of beer after attempting to turn his vehicle in South Africa on Friday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.