Unathi Obose The Kingdom of Ministries International Church where the robbery happened.PHOTO: UNATHI OBOSE Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Mfuleni police officers are investigating the near fatal of a church leader and subsequent robbery, where thieves made off with numerous items belonging to congregants. Preaching was brought to a rude halt at The Kingdom of God Ministries International Church in Driftsands last Sunday, when robbers stormed in and shot at Apostle Siniko Nxesi. He survived two bullets to his right arm and back. The incident took place as the minister was preparing for a meeting with congregants. The church is situated on the corner of Old Faure Road and Valangentambo Street. Nxesi was discharged from hospital on Tuesday. He said: “Three men came in to the church, two of them carrying guns ... The other with a gun stood at the front door, while another came towards me and put a gun on my head, whilst the third guy was busy searching bags, demanding wallets and cell phones.” He said there were seven of them(congregants) but his wife and another lady managed to escape through the back door. “All along I was praying aloud saying: ‘I shall not die. I shall live’! Nxesi said the one who pointed him with a gun had the temerity to engage in threatening talk: “Do you know that I can kill you now, he said”. “I started praying inside,” he said, adding that was when the culprit pulled the trigger, missing him at first. Nxesi said when he tried to run, the man pulled the trigger again, hitting him in his right arm. Another shot followed, hitting him in the back. He said the thugs reeked of alcohol. “You could see that they were not normal. Its either were on drugs or alcohol.” As they the criminals were leaving, they bumped into an off-duty police officer, according to Nxesi. “There was an exchange of gunfire, but no one was hit.” Nxesi said the men ran across the foot bridge to Site C. Church Manager Bulelani Guqaza said they are still traumitised by the incident because it was the first of its kind. “Our lives are in danger. Crime is on the rise, with no no police visibility.” Lonwabo Busakwe, who witnessed the incident reiterated Nxesi’s sentiments that the criminals exchanged live ammunition with the police.. “I was coming from Site C when I saw these guys firing at an officer. I ran for cover. Other community members were also watching,” said Busakwe. Sergeant Nozuko Matyobeni confirmed the incident and said a case of attempted murder and robbery were opened. Matyobeni said none of the suspects had been apprehended yet.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.