Ntwaagae Seleka City of Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba (Ntwaagae Seleka) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The City of Johannesburg has given the owners of two properties one week to pay it a combined R28m which they owe, apparently for illegal electricity connections. Mayor Herman Mashaba said in a statement on Tuesday that he uncovered the huge sums when he undertook another Buya Mthetho Revenue Enhancement Operation around parts of the municipality. Mashaba was accompanied by Member of Mayoral Committee for Finance Funzela Ngobeni and chief operations officer Floyd Brink during the operation which targeted large non-compliant developments. READ: Herman Mashaba: A coalition is the way of the future in municipalities "Illegal connections seriously hamper the City's ability to deliver quality service to the people of Johannesburg," he said. "Operation Buya Mthetho is a daily ward-based raid initiative focusing on the implementation of the City's by-laws within the municipality. Since its inception, R1.3bn in lost revenue has been recovered. "The revenue enhancement unit has been actively targeting large non-compliant developments to recuperate lost revenue when the City's services are connected illegally."  "We visited eight sites today (Tuesday), and delivered seven non-compliance notices which effectively give owners seven days to fully comply or the service they have been illegally connected to will be disconnected. Two of the seven properties owe the City a collective R28m. Both properties have seven days to pay up," he said. Mashaba feared that an ugly trend of bypassing the City's infrastructure installation process has reared its head, especially among recent developments, whether residential or commercial, even developments such as retirement villages and schools. "These practices owe the City dearly. Funds are needed to upgrade ageing infrastructure to communities that never had services before," he said.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.