Siyabonga Kalipa Khayelitsha residents Siviwe Majama and Mlungisi Mhlophe inside one of the South African National Defence Force vehicles during the Armed Forces Day celebrations in Khayelitsha.FOTO: SIYABONGA KALIPA Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The four day Armed Forces Day celebrations left the community of Khayelitsha in awe of what the South African National Defence Force has to offer. The event is aimed at honouring the brave men and women who sacrificed their lives in the line of duty and those who continue to serve the country. Some of the South African Air Force helicopters on display during celebrations were the Agusta A109, Oryx, Rooivalk and Super Lynx, the Gripens and Hawks jet fighters as well as the transport fleet, comprising the CASA 212, King Air, PC 12. The South African Navy provided two support vessels (South African Ship) SAS Drankesberg and SAS Protea, Frigates SAS Amatola, Spioenskop and offshore patrol vessels. The celebrations coincided with the commemoration of the sinking of SS Mendi in the English Channel on February 21, 1917. There was also an opportunity for those who are interested in joining the army to apply for vacancies within the military. Those who attended had the opportunity of experiencing what it is like to be in a military vehicle and some even getting a chance to shoot rifles. There was even an air show of fighter jets hovering above the skies, some SANDF jumped off, using parachutes to land in the stadium. Resident Siviwe Majama said he never thought he would one day experience being inside an army vehicle. “This was an experience I will never forget,” he said. He also hoped this was not the last time the army visited Khayelitsha, he said. Luthando Mfundisi said: “It was a nice outing for my children, they really enjoyed themselves. Overall, it was a nice day because I enjoyed myself too.”   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.