Jenni Evans Die loopbrug by die Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark waarvan ’n deel  Vrydagoggend op leerlinge geval het. Foto: Twitter/@antonieroos Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories President Cyril Ramaphosa has offered his deepest sympathy to the friends and family of the three children who died when a walkway collapsed at Höerskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark on Friday. "I offer my deepest sympathy to the families and friends of the deceased learners and I equally extend my condolences to the staff and entire school community of [Höerskool Driehoek],” said Ramaphosa in a statement released late on Friday night. READ: Vanderbijlpark school tragedy: 'He was a beautiful child of God' - family member of child who died "This is a tragedy that touches all South Africans. We have lost young people who were engaged in the most important endeavour of their young lives – their education." WATCH: Hundreds gather for emotional night vigil at Hoërskool Driehoek Hundreds of people gathered at Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark for an emotional night vigil, after a concrete slab collapsed at the school, killing three children and seriously injuring 25 others. He wished those injured a speedy recovery, and welcomed the psychosocial support extended to all those affected. "It is my hope that the people of our country and of the Vaal will at this time come together as one to support the Driehoek school community in this hour of mourning, while government, working with the school community, embarks on a process to establish the cause of this tragedy and to ensure that we can, at an appropriate time and under appropriate conditions resume learning and teaching." Three children were killed and more than 20 were injured when a concrete slab collapsed on to them as they were leaving assembly and going to class on Friday morning. Condolences and messages of support were flooding in from other schools, government officials and political parties, amongst others. A mother rushing to the school in a panic was also injured in a car accident. The incident has sparked questions about the structural integrity of school buildings across South Africa. Shocked by the tragedy, Parliament's portfolio committee on education called for an immediate investigation to make sure that it does not happen again, or at any other school. "The committee wishes to send their deepest condolences to the parents, school and the entire community", said chairperson Joe Mpisi. "Our thoughts and prayers are with you during this difficult time," added Mpisi, wishing those injured a speedy recovery. So far the name of 17-year-old athlete Roydon Olckers has been released to the media by his grieving father Donovan. News24 is still waiting for permission to release the names of the two girls who were killed. WATCH: Cyril Ramaphosa speaking at the start of his official state visit in India South African President Cyril Ramaphosa speaking at the start of his official state visit in India. He is flanked by Indian Prime Minister Nareandri Modi (in white) and Indian President Ram Nath Kovind WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. WATCH: IEC hails new law to ensure transparency in political party funding President Cyril Ramaphosa signed the Political Party Funding bill into law on Tuesday. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. SAfrica's Ramaphosa gives speech at ANC manifesto launch 1ST IMAGES of South Africa's Cyril Ramaphosa's speech at the launch of his party's 2019 election manifesto. The African National Congress (ANC), which has ruled since the end of apartheid 25 years ago, is tipped to win the election in May despite ... WATCH: Ramaphosa calls on private sector to assist with the fight against corruption Corruption has become a big issue that has to be addressed by the whole nation, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Thursday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.