Sheldon Morais Former president Jacob Zuma (Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories At around 22:00 on Wednesday, February 14, 2018, Jacob Zuma, then still South Africa's president, read out his "Dear John" later to the nation, telling South Africans "it's me, not you" on the very day lovers were pouring out their hearts - and their wallets - to show their affection for their significant others. In typical Zuma style, he fought for love right up until the last minute, sending mixed messages after being cast aside by his brothers in arms in the ANC. Addressing the nation in yet another late-night announcement, Number 1 said he was resigning, despite disagreeing with his ANC comrades. WATCH: The moment Jacob Zuma resigned as South Africa's president Ironically, February 14, 2018 also happened to be Ash Wednesday, the start of Lent and a symbolic day of penitence for Christians as they show sorrow and regret for having done wrong. As with many people in the digital age, Zuma found new, albeit fleeting, love in the likes and retweets of Twitter, quickly attracting over 200 000 followers (both lovers and haters) after he joined the social network in November last year. And it's to these followers Msholozi sent a message of love and "bitter sweet" memories this Valentine's day - thankfully, though, at a more appropriate time. It was 10:00. This day brings bitter sweet memories for some of us but it also serves as a reminder that love always prevails. Love is the one thing that keeps us going even when we are faced with hardships. Today I send you all my love and say thank you for showing love. Happy Valentine’s Day READ: Zuma's ultimate Valentine's Day gift The former president's followers and others didn't leave him alone for long, responding to his tweet almost immediately - some showing more love than others.. Ku rough Baba ?? pic.twitter.com/wTd0W75k8W Nxamalala ???????????????????? pic.twitter.com/eE9IozeTuB pic.twitter.com/nTM9wv81nE I wish you loved us more than the Guptas. You will be celebrated today  The man from Nkandla may have stepped down as president but his "hardships" are far from over. He'll need all the love he can get - and more - to get through. As Zuma makes his way through the first commemoration (or anniversary, depending on who you speak to) of his resignation, he may want to turn to bestselling author Michael Faudet's Bitter Sweet Love for some consolation. In the book on love and loss Faudet writes: "There is no perfect ending to a relationship. No magic formula. Just a silent scream as they rip your fucking heart out." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.