Jenna Etheridge SA Police. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A mother has laid an assault charge against the father of a pupil at her child's school in Citrusdal following a playground row. A Grade 7 pupil had been playing with a ball a week ago (January 30) when it apparently hit a Grade 4 pupil. "The Grade 4 learner, reportedly angered by this allegedly choked the Grade 7 learner. A minor scuffle ensued between the two learners ensued," said Jessica Shelver, spokesperson for Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schafer. Later that day, the younger child's father reportedly assaulted the older child off school premises, "allegedly strangling and kicking her", said Shelver. The mother of the Grade 7 pupil went to the police to open a case against him and immediately reported the matter to the school. Provincial police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana confirmed they were investigating a case of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm "after a 13-year-old was assaulted by an old man in front of the school gate". "It is alleged that children were playing at school with a ball, one child hit the other child with a ball while playing, then the child that was hit with a ball reported to his/her parent. Circumstances surrounding this incident are under investigation with no arrest yet," said Rwexana. The education department indicated that both pupils would receive support and counselling. The school opted for a mediation process between the pupils. Shelver said the department had programmes and initiatives in place to assist schools and pupils in dealing with conflict management, as well as ensuring heightened safety. "Ultimately, the Education Department needs the support of parents – who can advise, guide and encourage their children to refrain from violence or anti-social behavior – the challenge comes when the parents themselves are the ones engaging in violent behavior, especially against our learners." ALSO READ: #SansSouci: Mom lays charge after teacher slaps child, teacher lays charge of her own   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.