Magazine Features Adriana. (Photo: CATERS/WWW.MAGAZINEFEATURES.CO.ZA) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Mexican teenage couple have been arrested for the kidnapping and murder of a girl who “liked” a Facebook post made by the male suspect. A young woman identified only as Alexa (18) and her boyfriend Yovany de Jesús (16), from Chihuahua, Mexico, were arrested and charged with the kidnapping and murder of their schoolmate Adriana Jacobo Rocha. The Mexican anti-kidnapping unit investigated the case when the 17-year-old victim’s parents reported her disappearance and said they were told to pay 300 000 MXN (around R208 000) for her release, according to local media. But after initial contact with the alleged kidnappers all communication stopped and police found the teen’s body in the rural area of Cerro Del Pajaro. Reportedly school friends claim Adriana had become embroiled in a jealous row with the female suspect, Alexa, after she liked one of Yovany’s Facebook posts. Adriana allegedly agreed to meet Alexa in the city centre to resolve their differences, but the suspect showed up with her boyfriend Yovany in tow, according to the victim’s relatives. Following a preliminary investigation local police said that Adriana was taken to the city’s outskirts and killed. The suspects then allegedly contacted Adriana’s family to demand a ransom. The 17-year-old’s body was reportedly found with signs of strangulation and a knife wound to the neck.  Devastated school friends paid tribute to Adriana and described her as “a happy, helpful and good person”. The investigation is ongoing. Source: Magazine Features Psych exam ordered for Boston kidnap suspect A man charged with kidnapping a 23-year-old woman in Boston has been ordered to undergo a mental health evaluation. Bacha posh: The Afghan girls living secretly as boys In Afghanistan, many families prefer sons over daughters. A male child is a status symbol who carries the family name forward, while daughters are often considered a burden. This has led to some of them practising the age-old tradition of 'bacha p... Chicago cop sentenced to more than six years for Laquan McDonald murder A judge sentences former Chicago police officer Jason Van Dyke to more than six years in prison, after a jury found him guilty of murder last year in the 2014 shooting of black teenager Laquan McDonald. Style Stories: Alessandra Lanvin From "Give a girl the right shoes and she can conquer the world" to "a woman with good shoes is never ugly", Marilyn Monroe and Coco Chanel are two ladies who surely knew how important footwear can be for a woman. 17 black female judges sworn in on Houston courts Harris County, Texas made history on Tuesday after 17 black female judges were sworn in among other newly elected officials for the new year. Boy sells art to help mother through shutdown Boy sells his drawings to help his mother during the partial government shutdown in the US. Jayme's Aunt: 'I was counting everyday' The aunt of the Wisconsin teenager who disappeared after her parents were killed in the family's home expressed joy and held back tears as she described receiving the news from authorities that her niece had been found. B-wom tells us why an app can be a girl's best friend B-wom is a Barcelona-based digital coach for women's well-being. The app offers personalized guidance on intimate female health issues -- such as how to perform pelvic floor exercises to improve your sex life or for pregnancy aftercare. We chat to... Strange but True: Males Can Lactate Thought lactating was exclusive to women? Think again. Man charged with attempted murder after west London double-stabbing A man has been charged with two counts of attempted murder after an 11-month-old boy and a woman were stabbed in west London. Suspect accused of stabbing 11-month-old baby on the run Police have named a man who is on the run suspected of stabbing an 11-month-old baby and a 32-year-old woman. Van Dyke given nearly 7 years for McDonald death The white Chicago police officer who gunned down a black teenager in 2014 was sentenced Friday to nearly seven years in prison. The sentencing brought to an end to a historic centred on a shocking dashcam video . Facebook results beat Wall Street, shares jump Facebook easily beat Wall Street’s profit estimates when it reported earnings Wednesday, soothing investor concerns about rising costs amid a slew of privacy-related scandals. Chris Dignam has more. Apple bans Facebook app that paid teens for data Facebook faces fresh controversy after media reports that it paid teens to install an app that harvested their most private data. How Workplace by Facebook aims to unite different parts of companies How Workplace by Facebook aims to unite different parts of companies Facebook to the Rescue Facebook design head Luke Woods talks to Josh Constine about making products that actually help people in disasters, the problem of misuse, and building new solutions. EU wants internet firms to intensify fake news fight EU Security Commissioner Julian King, during a press conference in Brussels, says internet giants like Google and Facebook need to intensify the fight against disinformation campaigns ahead of European elections in May. 'If people are being duped, you don't get results that represent what they want' Wikipedia founder issues warning on fake news around votes. Snap shares hit by second CFO exit in a year Shares of Snap plunged after second finance chief left the Snapchat operator in a year since a much-criticized redesign.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.