Jan Gerber "This may be President Ramaphosa's last State of the Nation Address," DA leader Mmusi Maimane said on Wednesday morning, in a stump speech presented as an "alternative" State of the Nation Address (SONA) ahead of the real deal on Thursday evening. In his address to members of the diplomatic corps, party representatives and members of the media, Maimane covered most of his recent criticisms of the ANC – that South Africa doesn't need a new bus driver, but a new bus, and that liberation movements fail in government, before describing what the DA had achieved where it governed: cleaner audit outcomes and higher job growth. "The South Africa we have become today is nothing like the one we once dreamt of, and I cannot accept this," Maimane said, early in his speech. "I remember when we were united by a vision of a country that worked, in both senses of the word. A country that functioned like a normal society – fair, tolerant and peaceful – but also a country with dignified work for all its people... A country that protected the rights and freedoms of all South Africans." WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. Repeating what he said in a recent speech to the Cape Town Press Club, Maimane said a massive gap had opened up between the economic insiders and outsiders in our society. "Some had ended up on the inside – they had jobs, went to good schools, knew the right people, had the right party connections. And others were stranded on the outside, with no hope of getting in.  DA leader ?@MmusiMaimane? to deliver “alternative state of the nation address”. He begins by expressing condolences to learners of Hoërskool Driehoek #SONA2019 ?@TeamNews24? pic.twitter.com/GrLuM3lpp9  "It seemed to me that there was a deliberate effort to put up walls to protect the insiders and keep the rest out. Everything felt stacked against poor South Africans, and I could see no attempt nor will from our government to rectify this." 'Liberation movements never make good governments' He said this was the "profound injustice" that remained in our society, despite more than a decade of democracy. "Today that gap is even wider, and there is no indication of it closing. We are a country split in two. That is the state of our nation," Maimane said.  DA leader @MmusiMaimane says there was no political will to destruct the walls between those on the outside and those on the inside @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/aPHJ4eqwix  "We need to recognise that things are getting progressively worse for us, and we have to acknowledge that the reason they're getting worse is the ANC. He said that if South Africans took their democratic duty seriously, then this year's election had to be a referendum on the ANC. "Not an expression of hope for a better version of the ANC, but a referendum on the party's achievements and failures during its time in office, and particularly its performance over the past term." Using recent events in Zimbabwe as an example, Maimane said the failure to imagine a future beyond a liberation movement had been the undoing of countless nations throughout Africa. "And if the history of Africa has taught us one thing, it is that liberation movements never make good governments. Their goal – their very reason for being – is to fight oppression and effect liberation, and not to build a new country. The ANC is simply unable to build one South Africa for all," he said. Maimane said he respected Ramaphosa "as a person". "But whatever individual qualities he might have, means little because he leads a party that has demonstrated, over and over again, that it cannot act in the interest of South Africa. "Tomorrow he will sketch out his version of the state of our nation in Parliament. This will no doubt be a carefully crafted narrative that tries to separate him from everything he and his colleagues did to our country just the other day." 'Wild promises' He said Ramaphosa's ANC wasn't recently parachuted in to save South Africa from an entirely different ANC. "He was there, side by side with Zuma, throughout the 'lost years'." Maimane said some newer parties were making wild promises in their election manifestos, that should be found in a library's fantasy fiction section. "The alternative, of course, is to ask people to judge you on your track record rather than on your promises. And let's be honest, there's only one party that can do this, and that's the DA," he said. "Thirteen years in the City of Cape Town, ten years in the Western Cape and the past two years in Johannesburg, Tshwane and Nelson Mandela Bay have given us a chance to demonstrate the DA difference, and not just talk about it. "And the results – the ones that really matter when it comes to closing the gap between economic insiders and outsiders – speak for themselves." Maimane admitted that governing in minority and coalition governments was hard. He said he nevertheless believed coalition governments were the future, before adding, perhaps a little hopefully: "This may be President Ramaphosa's last State of the Nation Address…"  Imagine. ANC is currently polling at 61%, DA at 14%. In the 2016 elections, Ipsos polling was 5% off actual results. https://t.co/12AGCRtHOs  News24 asked Maimane to deliver a state of the DA address, focusing on internal policy certainty, given Western Cape Premier Helen Zille's talk of a tax revolt and the recent departure of Gwen Ngwenya as the party's policy head. 'Party does not support a tax revolt' He responded by saying that the DA had the best governments in the country. "We're in a healthy position. "A manifesto is a process, it is not the outcome of one individual," he said. He said they had been implementing DA policies where they were in government. "It is good for a political party to have a discussion. "Let me be clear and unequivocal: The party does not support a tax revolt." He said a discussion by two individuals belonging to a party could not be a litmus test for the strength of a party.  How interesting. You pride yourself on standing firm on principles. You constantly tell us how policy must fact-based (and principled!), so I hope given all you are, you can provide some facts to a few simple questions about this idea. Here’wa: https://t.co/SGLf0AIX3e https://t.co/UP1vUXZZsH   WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. 'It's time for a new political order' - De Lille announces new political party Former Cape Town mayor and DA member Patricia de Lille says she is ready to serve her country under a new political movement. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. WATCH: Woman completes epic drive from Scotland to Cape Town in a 1958 Morris Minor Laura Morrison has travelled from Scotland to South Africa in1958 Morris Minor to raise funds for cancer research. 'Our rail system has gone to the dogs' - DA protests at Prasa offices The Democratic Alliance held a picket outside the offices of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA) in Hatfield, Pretoria on Wednesday. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. WATCH: Ramaphosa delivers Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture President Cyril Ramaphosa is delivering the 8th Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture.

The focus of the address is restorative justice in South Africa, 20 years after the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. WATCH: Zille breaks ground on R3bn mixed-income residential project Western Cape Premier Helen Zille said the "pioneering" housing project expected at the site of the derelict old Conradie Hospital in Cape Town could "make or break" the current housing system.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.