Ntwaagae Seleka (File, Alex Mitchley, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Academic activities at Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) campuses in Pretoria, Ga-Rankuwa, eMalahleni and Mbombela will remain suspended on Wednesday, following student protests. TUT spokesperson Willa de Ruyter said the situation would be monitored continuously. "The university apologises for the inconvenience the suspension of activities may cause and would like to advise students and other stakeholders to visit our website for updated information on the way forward. "The safety of staff, students and infrastructure is a priority for the university. As a people's university, TUT remains committed to resolving issues within its mandate soonest. Therefore, management will continue to engage with student leaders and other relevant roleplayers to reach amicable solutions," she said. Earlier on Tuesday, IOL reported that activities at Arcadia, Ga-Rankuwa and even the Arcadia campuses seemed to be getting back on track. At the Soshanguve campus, proceedings resumed under the watch of security personnel. Students at the main campus were seen catching public transport while others were seen to be milling about after their classes had been suspended. The chairperson of the EFF Students Command, Kingsley Baloyi, told IOL that students were protesting as they were fed up with being undermined by the university's management, who refused to take their demands seriously. READ: TUT shooting: Cops had expired firearm competency certificates - report Baloyi said students were missing classes while they were waiting in queues to sort out issues, such as being blocked by the university. He added that another issue they were unhappy with was student allowance allocation. First-year students were given a R5 000 book allowance, while senior students were struggling to make do with their R2 500 allowance. Baloyi said senior students felt the discrepancy was unfair and created unnecessary animosity between student groups. He said the students would not stop until those who had been financially excluded were also absorbed and allowances of R5 000 had been paid to all. De Ruyter said the eMalahleni campus remained closed as a result of disruptions experienced on Monday. "Disruptions at the Pretoria campus are being monitored. Staff and students at the affected campuses will be advised immediately when normal university activities are set to resume. "Although the Ga-Rankuwa campus experienced disruptions this morning, students have decided to call off the protest action and the campus is accessible." She confirmed that sporadic disruptions had been experienced at the Arcadia and Arts campuses.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.