Pelane Phakgadi Cosatu general secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali. (Mduduzi Ndzingi, Gallo Images, Sowetan, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Trade union federation Cosatu has hired a legal team to start following the ongoing Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture so that it can lay charges where necessary. "The time for indecisiveness is over for law enforcement agencies," said Cosatu general secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali. He was speaking at a media briefing in Johannesburg on Thursday about the outcomes of the federation's three-day central executive committee (CEC) meeting, which took place from Monday to Wednesday. Ntshalintshali said the CEC was unhappy that there was "no appetite or political will to investigate and prosecute private sector corruption". NATIONWIDE STRIKE: Cosatu protests Eskom restructuring and job loses Cosatu members took to the streets on Wednesday after the trade union federation announced a nationwide strike. "The private sector is also fully responsible for the economic mess the country finds itself in," the general secretary said. READ: #Budget2019: Cosatu says government failed to 'rise to the occasion' He said the legal team would most likely give advice on how to deal with the matters arising from the commission and analyse "whether we need to deal with issues, and prospects of prosecution". "We don't have allies in crime, we don't look at which office you hold, we will not turn a blind eye and if there is evidence tabled that someone had done wrong, we will be laying charges," Ntshalintshali continued. #Cosatu "We are still very angry about government signing an agreement with the renewable energy independent power producers (REIPPs)". Ntjalintjali says government must review the agreement and also ensure that Eskom produces its own renewable power. @TeamNews24  The alliance The current state of the ANC, which is the leading component of the tripartite alliance, was also discussed at the CEC. "We remain bothered by the self-inflicted blows and damage that have weakened the ANC, which only serve to strengthen the adversaries of our revolution." The governing party recently had to deal with allegations of rape and sexual harassment against its head of the presidency, Zizi Kodwa, and suspended acting national ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe. #Cosatu Ntjalintjali says the federation has noted statements by Finance Minister @tito_mboweni on questioning the relevance of state owned enterprises. "Not all SOE's are bankrupt and we should fix them and utilize them better". @TeamNews24  Both Kodwa and Mabe have since "stepped aside" to deal with the allegations. On the other hand, the party's deputy chairperson in Limpopo, Florence Radzilani, and her treasurer, Danny Msiza, have also stepped down to deal with claims of their involvement in the R1.2bn looting of the VBS Mutual Bank. The federation, however, said that it has taken all factors into consideration, and the CEC have decided to campaign for the ANC for an "overwhelming victory in the upcoming general elections on May 8", Ntshalintshali said. READ MORE: Cosatu takes march over jobs to Parliament The CEC commended the National Assembly for adopting the Public Investment Corporation (PIC) Amendment Bill on Wednesday. The bill is aimed at improving governance, transparency and accountability at the PIC. "This bill is one of the most progressive, anti-corruption and pro-worker one since 1994," Ntshalintshali added. The federation, however, expressed unhappiness around talks to unbundle Eskom. "We remain adamant that the unbundling of Eskom can only come with privatisation, as well as loss of jobs in the public sector," Ntshalintshali continued. He also said that his federation welcomed the Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane's decision to investigate the awarding of multibillion-rand contracts to renewable energy independent power producers. "We are still very angry about government signing an agreement with the renewable energy independent power producers. The state must not just review the contracts, but must make sure that Eskom produces its own renewable energy and the independent power producers can compete with it if they so wish." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Italian unions demand action on jobs Italian unions gather in Rome to demand more action from government Unions rally against federal government shutdown Union leaders staged two rallies in Washington Thursday to bring attention to federal workers who are going without paychecks. WATCH: Police clash with marchers at ANC demonstration A scuffle ensued between a group wearing Sanco t-shirts and police after fireworks was allegedly fired during an ANC march on Friday to Premier David Makhura's office demanding service delivery. 'Inkjet' solar panels poised to revolutionise green energy What if one day all buildings could be equipped with windows and facades that satisfy the structure's every energy need, whether rain or shine? That sustainability dream is today one step closer to becoming a reality thanks to Polish physicist and... What is Tesla and what cars does it make? Tesla is a technology company and independent carmaker whose mission is to accelerate the world's transition to sustainable energy. It aims to offer electric cars at affordable prices. 'Without women the world stops' Some Spanish women will go on strike on International Women's Day to highlight sexism and the gender pay gap. Ryanair sidesteps unions by ramping up ultra-low-cost unit Ryanair has reached an agreement on wages and benefits with the main German pilots' union that will ensure there is no repeat of strikes that disrupted flights before last Christmas. As Francis Maguire reports, the news comes as the budget airline ra Massive general strike takes effect in Tunisia The secretary general of Tunisia's powerful UGTT trade union, Noureddine Taboubi, gives a speech in front of a crowd gathered in front of the union's headquarters in Tunis, as a major strike took effect in the country Thursday. The Tunisian Genera... Massive general strike takes effect in Tunisia The secretary general of Tunisia's powerful UGTT trade union, Noureddine Taboubi, gives a speech in front of a crowd gathered in front of the union's headquarters in Tunis, as a major strike takes effect in the country. The Tunisian General Labour... LA teachers go on strike over wages, class size Tens of thousands of Los Angeles teachers went on strike Monday after contentious contract negotiations failed in the nation's second-largest school district. WATCH: Ash clouds still visible above Medupi Clouds of ash could be seen above the Medupi plant in Limpopo on Thursday. Planes, trains at a standstill as Belgium strikes Planes, trains at a standstill as Belgium strikes Utility bankruptcy could cost wildfire victims Faced with many lawsuits over California wildfires, Pacific Gas & Electric Corp. filed for bankruptcy in a move that could mean higher customer bills and smaller payouts to fire victims. Sir Keir Starmer renews calls for a vote on the customs union Shadow Brexit secretary Sir Keir Starmer speaks to reporters in Dublin ahead of a series of meetings with unions, business and political leaders. Sir Keir said Labour had concerns about the backstop but see it as 'inevitable'. Greek workers strike, seeking higher wages, tax cuts Greek workers walked off the job on Wednesday (November 28) demanding an increase in the minimum wage and tax cuts after years of harsh austerity. Ryanair in biggest ever one-day strike Ryanair has been hit by strikes across Europe as it struggles in negotiations with trade unions. Ryanair reaches agreement with Irish union in pilots dispute Ryanair has reached an agreement with the trade union representing its Irish pilots.  As Sonia Legg reports, the breakthrough sent its shares sharply higher as the budget airline strives to quell staff protests around Europe. Protesters demand the release of jailed Istanbul airport workers A few dozen of people gather outside court where the trial is beginning of two dozen workers who were arrested after they protested poor working conditions while building Istanbul's giant new airport. Members of trade unions and relatives of the w... Teacher strike delayed in Los Angeles The teacher union representing 35,000 Los Angeles members is postponing the start of a strike till next Monday. They had planned to strike Thursday, but the possibility of a court-ordered delay of the strike prompted the union move. Kyckr extends contract with Bank of Ireland 20 Sep 2018 - Regulatory technology company Kyckr (ASX:KYK) has extended contracted services to Bank of Ireland for a period of three years. WATCH: Damage to 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard a criminal act – DA The DA has called the damage inflicted on its newly unveiled 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, a 'criminal act'. Amazon workers in Spain strike ahead of busy Three Kings celebrations Workers at Amazon’s biggest warehouse in Spain started a two-day strike on Thursday just ahead of a gift-giving feast day, as part of a long-running campaign for better pay and conditions. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. Afterpay and Platinum rally: Aus shares flat at noon 27 Aug 2018 - Market at Midday. Afterpay sets records with further upgrades. Platinum also rallies after upgrade. Infigen Energy gains 4.8% on NPAT jumping 42%. Metcash firms hold of South Australian market. Watch for more. WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma. S Africa 'captured by corrupt elements' South Africa's President Zuma feels "anxious" about his future, says ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. ANC launches election manifesto South Africa's ruling ANC party launches its election campaign on Saturday ahead of polls in May that it is tipped to win despite recently falling support, internal divisions and a sluggish economy. On Friday, party members including President Cyr... Power outage risk rising - South African utility Eskom South Africa's power company Eskom says the risk of nationwide electricity outages has increased significantly due to a sharp fall in coal stockpiles. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. South Africa's ex-president just signed a record deal Former president Jacob Zuma, who is implicated in a major corruption scandal, has been given a taxpayer-funded record deal. Outa, ANCGP and civil society groups march to union buildings against etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. Thousands marched through the streets of Tshwane on Friday morning. ClearVue Technologies receive ATO boost 19 Oct 2018 - Smart building material company ClearVue Technologies (ASX:CPV) has received a payment from the Australian Tax Office of almost $500,000 as part of the Commonwealth Government Research & Development Tax Incentive Program. Inside the ANC's Bosasa election war room Bosasa sponsored these war rooms for the past three elections for the ANC, at an estimated cost of R2-million per election. Students in Gaza generate electricity using sea waves Palestinian engineering students are tackling dire power shortages in Gaza by generating electricity using sea waves. The project aims to provide clean and renewable energy for Gaza which is currently suffering from a blockade Miniloop cycle highway unveiled An elevated cycleway compared to Elon Musk's Hyperloop has been unveiled. The miniloop design would utilise renewable energy technologies to power itself and keep cyclists safely away from traffic and pollution. Financial sector drags: Aus shares close 0.1% lower 16 Nov 2018 - Opened in the black following positive leads from the US, dipped in the afternoon, and closed 0.1 per cent lower. The Info Tech sector was the strongest performing sector followed by Materials. The Property and Consumer Staples secto... WATCH: Armed local farmer walks into demonstration in Greyton Western Cape police are probing an incident involving a man who was caught on camera on Monday, wielding a firearm during a demonstration in Greyton. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). The Future Makers With recent attention on global warming, there's been a big focus on the problem, but what about the solutions? The Future Makers tells the story of key Australians leading the way on the world stage in renewable energy. Gujarat eyes Rs 2.2 Lk Cr investment in renewable energy Orient Green power is expecting an investment of Rs 1 Lk Cr in power generation projects in the next 3 years. WATCH: Site conditions 'really bad' as Medupi spews ash Clouds of ash could be seen above the Medupi plant in Limpopo on Thursday. WATCH: ANC mourns the passing of Mendi Msimang - 'A giant tree has fallen' ANC pays tribute to struggle stalwart and its former treasurer-general Mendi Msimang following his passing at the age of 78. WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. Kenya's KenGen eyes green bond: CEO The Kenya Electricity Generating Company (KenGen) says it may issue a green bond as part of its push into renewable energy sector. Solar developers demand change Tenders for 1,000 MW For solar projects from November 2018, decision taken by Ministry of New & Renewable Energy. Underwriting of new energy supply is technology neutral : Angus Taylor Energy Minister Angus Taylor speaking to the media in Canberra says the government has introduced a new underwriting program to invite new energy players into the market to bring down electricity costs. He says the underwriting program is technology neutral. Mr Taylor attacks Labor's energy policy with its forty five percent renewable energy target that will increase electricity bills by "fifty eight percent". "They need to answer some hard questions about their policy and the impact its going to have on every Australian," Mr Taylor says. WATCH: 'We are not fighting the ANC' - Mahumapelo ahead of court appearance Former ANC North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo addresses supporters before fighting the NEC decision to disband his PEC at the South Gauteng High Court. WATCH: ANC paints Joburg yellow demanding service delivery Hundreds of ANC members from greater Joburg – in collaboration with alliance partners Sanco, SACP and Cosatu – are marching to the offices of Mayor Herman Mashaba, Premier David Makhura and Eskom to hand over memorandums demanding service delivery   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.