Tshidi Madia Former North West premier Supra Mahumapelo (Frennie Shivambu, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories North West ANC leader Supra Mahumapelo has welcomed a national executive committee (NEC) decision to collapse the provincial executive committee (PEC) and provincial task team (PTT) in favour of brokering peace between the warring groups. The decision was made at a special NEC meeting held on Sunday and Monday. "I hope all of us can rise above the fray, honestly self-correct as part of renewal," Mahumapelo said in a short statement on Friday morning. He welcomed the NEC decision despite having won, along with four others, two court applications to be reinstated as North West chairperson. WATCH: 'We are not fighting the ANC' - Mahumapelo ahead of court appearance Former ANC North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo addresses supporters before fighting the NEC decision to disband his PEC at the South Gauteng High Court. Mahumapelo said current political challenges in the North West created an opportunity for the ANC in the province to "rebrand, reposition and renew" itself as a collective. In August last year, the NEC stripped Mahumapelo of his powers. The PTT was appointed to run the organisation in the province in the interim. Enforcement order However, he approached the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria and successfully challenged both NEC decisions to remove him and to form the PTT. Later, he went back to the court after obtaining an order, in terms of which he was allowed to return to work within two days, was disregarded. The court later granted an enforcement order in terms of which he had to be reinstated urgently. But the ANC argued that there was no need to do so because it was appealing. "Whilst going to court was necessary, it was also a bit uncomfortable as it was imposed by circumstances that we ought to control as a movement," Mahumapelo remarked. "Now is the time to learn the lessons of revolution and build a better movement going forward," he continued. News24 previously reported that party president Cyril Ramaphosa decided to join the ANC's rapid response team, which had already started talks between the PEC and PTT. "He is the chief custodian of the constitution of the ANC and conference resolutions, the resolution of unity and renewal programme of the ANC," ANC acting spokesperson Dakota Legoete said. "It is my firm believe that all of us as cadres of the movement in the province should say, it is possible to be coherent, work together and ensure decisive ANC victory in the May elections," he added. The ANC also announced that a provincial elections team would take over the running of the organisation in the North West and prepare for the upcoming polls. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 2017: WATCH: A News24 Festive Season special - politicians 'sing' Last Christmas Watch as South African politicians attempt to 'sing' pop duo Wham!'s 1984 hit single, Last Christmas. WATCH: This 30-year-old family business is a school hotspot for Joburg families Gauteng schools open on Wednesday and parents are on the hunt for affordable school uniforms. WATCH: Mzwandile Masina inspects Benoni dam wall after collapse Ekurhuleni Mayor Mzwandile Masina conducted a site inspection at Middle Lake in Benoni, Gauteng, on Thursday following a partial dam wall collapse. WATCH. WATCH: Ramaphosa tees off ahead of ANC's manifesto launch President Cyril Ramaphosa enjoyed a day of golf on Friday morning ahead of  the ANC's birthday celebrations and manifesto launch on Saturday. Ramaphosa played alongside paired players at the Mount Edgecombe Country Club Estate in Durban. SAfrica's Ramaphosa gives speech at ANC manifesto launch 1ST IMAGES of South Africa's Cyril Ramaphosa's speech at the launch of his party's 2019 election manifesto. The African National Congress (ANC), which has ruled since the end of apartheid 25 years ago, is tipped to win the election in May despite ... SAfrica's Ramaphosa gives speech at ANC manifesto launch 1ST IMAGES of South Africa's Cyril Ramaphosa's speech at the launch of his party's 2019 election manifesto. The African National Congress (ANC), which has ruled since the end of apartheid 25 years ago, is tipped to win the election in May despite ... WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH: Two farm workers accused of killing Coligny teen found guilty Two farm workers accused of killing a 15-year-old Coligny teen were found guilt of murder in the North West High Court in Mahikeng on Wednesday. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. Drone finds 75-year-old man stuck in marshes for a day A police drone found a 75-year-old man stuck in marshes for almost 24 hours after he went missing on a family walk. In a step toward reconciliation, South Korea to remove propaganda speakers South Korea announced it would remove loudspeakers that bellowed propaganda across the border with the North, following Friday's historic summit between the two countries. From Umea in the north to Malmo in the south, fans celebrate Sweden win Soccer fans all over Sweden celebrate as Sweden beat Swirtzerland 1-0 to reach the World Cup quarter-finals for the first time in 24 years. WATCH: Ramaphosa delivers Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture President Cyril Ramaphosa is delivering the 8th Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture.

The focus of the address is restorative justice in South Africa, 20 years after the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. S Africa's Ramaphosa confirms resignation of finance minister Nene South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa has accepted the resignation of Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene, who has faced calls to resign after he admitted to visiting the Gupta brothers, friends of scandal-plagued former leader Jacob Zuma who have b... Power outage risk rising - South African utility Eskom South Africa's power company Eskom says the risk of nationwide electricity outages has increased significantly due to a sharp fall in coal stockpiles. Citizenship Bill: North East On The Boil 11 parties participate in meeting at Guwahati, decide to agitate against bill. The North Korean spy who wants to go home Kim Young-sik is a former North Korean spy who was captured in the South, and now hopes to return. WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. WATCH: Witness says she was 14 when pastor Timothy Omotoso started molesting her The first witness has taken the stand of the trial of controversial pastor Timothy Omotoso, taking place in Port Elizabeth. Utility firm trains sniffer dogs to detect water leaks A major utilities firm in Warrington is training sniffer dogs to detect water leaks. United Utilities, which covers the north west of England, is working with with Cape-SPC on a new project. East meets West at the North Pole A European-Arab team of women is trekking to the North Pole to improve understanding between cultures. WATCH: JHB high court evacuated after prisoners escape Gauteng police have confirmed that the Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg has been evacuated following the escape of two prisoners on Friday morning. Zuma on land: Less debate, more nationalisation Former President Jacob Zuma said there is too much debate about land expropriation without compensation to his liking, and suggested that land should be nationalised. WATCH: ANC paints Joburg yellow demanding service delivery Hundreds of ANC members from greater Joburg – in collaboration with alliance partners Sanco, SACP and Cosatu – are marching to the offices of Mayor Herman Mashaba, Premier David Makhura and Eskom to hand over memorandums demanding service delivery WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma. WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. ANC launches election manifesto South Africa's ruling ANC party launches its election campaign on Saturday ahead of polls in May that it is tipped to win despite recently falling support, internal divisions and a sluggish economy. On Friday, party members including President Cyr... S Africa 'captured by corrupt elements' South Africa's President Zuma feels "anxious" about his future, says ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. Outa, ANCGP and civil society groups march to union buildings against etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. Thousands marched through the streets of Tshwane on Friday morning. South Africa's ex-president just signed a record deal Former president Jacob Zuma, who is implicated in a major corruption scandal, has been given a taxpayer-funded record deal. WATCH: Armed local farmer walks into demonstration in Greyton Western Cape police are probing an incident involving a man who was caught on camera on Monday, wielding a firearm during a demonstration in Greyton. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. WATCH: ANC mourns the passing of Mendi Msimang - 'A giant tree has fallen' ANC pays tribute to struggle stalwart and its former treasurer-general Mendi Msimang following his passing at the age of 78. WATCH: Police clash with marchers at ANC demonstration A scuffle ensued between a group wearing Sanco t-shirts and police after fireworks was allegedly fired during an ANC march on Friday to Premier David Makhura's office demanding service delivery. The Zuma presidency: Scandals and successes Jacob Zuma has faced some controversies during his time as ANC leader. WATCH: Golf ball-sized hail stones turn parts of Gauteng an icy white Severe hailstorms turned parts of Gauteng an icy white on Thursday. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). WATCH: Premier David Makhura receives letter of demand from coloured communities Residents in Gauteng communities affected by gang violence marched in Johannesburg on Friday to hand over a letter of demand to Gauteng Premier David Makhura. WATCH: Damage to 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard a criminal act – DA The DA has called the damage inflicted on its newly unveiled 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, a 'criminal act'. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: Father of boxing champion killed in heated argument in Gauteng A video which has been circulating on social media shows a 61-year-old man and a security guard in a heated altercation, From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg. Mabuza back from sick leave, campaigns in Mpumalanga Deputy President David Mabuza has emerged in Piet Retief, Mpumalanga, after he went Russia for a routine medical trip after taking sick leave last month. WATCH: Weekend hail leaves parts of Pretoria covered in ice Severe weather conditions hit large parts of Gauteng this past weekend after the South African Weather Service (SAWS) issued a notice for severe thunderstorms across the province. WATCH: Freedom Park residents demonstrate outside Luthuli House Luthuli House in the Johannesburg CBD should brace itself for a "sleepover" if the Gauteng government doesn't address issues raised by landless residents of Freedom Park in the south of the city. WATCH: Khabisi Mosunkutu remembered at emotional memorial service The memorial service of ANC stalwart Khabisi Mosunkutu was held on Friday at Pimville,Soweto. The 69-year-old former MEC passed away on Monday after battling with his health for some time. WATCH: Ramaphosa's reincarnated Scorpions a 'seminal moment' in SONA 2019 News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson calls President Cyril Ramaphosa's announcement that he will bring back a Scorpions-like unit to help root out corruption a 'major announcement' during post-SONA analysis.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.