Correspondent ER24 paramedics.  (ER24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A man was killed during the early hours of Sunday morning when he fell from the ninth floor of the Johannesburg Hotel in Twist street in Hillbrow, Johannesburg. "Shortly before 01:00, paramedics from ER24 arrived on the scene where they found the man lying on the side of the road. Sadly, there was nothing that paramedics could do for him and he was declared dead on the scene," ER24 spokesperson Werner Vermaak said in a statement. "The exact circumstances surrounding the incident is not yet known. Local police attended the scene and will conduct an investigation," Vermaak said. Read: Young man found dead on roof of building in Johannesburg Eyewitness accounts of the incident vary. Some claim that the man was stabbed and then pushed from the building, while others recounted that he jumped. The man sustained injuries that seemed consistent with stab wounds, but the exact circumstances could not immediately be established, ER24 told News24. Attempts to contact the Hillbrow police were unsuccessful. Man killed in fall from 9th floor of building in Hillbrow https://t.co/7AANu7IgUT #ArriveAlive @ER24EMS pic.twitter.com/8zINKLQ6gj   WATCH | Wife, colleagues pay tribute to metro cop killed by taxi A Durban metro police officer, who was run over and killed while on duty outside the Galleria Mall in Amanzimtoti, will be laid to rest on Monday morning. WATCH: Taxi collision leaves 1 dead in Ballito One person has been killed following a collision between a taxi and a light vehicle in Ballito on Saturday afternoon. Watch. DOCUMENTARY | Buried Truth: Unearthing the story of murdered farmworker Adam Pieterse "He wasn't just a drifter, a farmworker that nobody cared about. He was Mannetjies, my brother and the way he was killed just wasn't right," his sister told News24, shortly after a Lutzville farmer was convicted of using a spade to beat him to death. WATCH: Two of these KZN home invaders were killed by police Two suspects from the notorious "Mercedes Gang" were killed in a shoot-out with police while robbing a home in Durban North on Tuesday. WATCH: Shooting at KZN court - two confirmed dead At least two people have been shot and killed at the Durban Magistrate's Court.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.