Duncan Alfreds South African healthcare is set for an efficiency boost with a new medicine dispensing robot that will deliver medication in a more convenient and effective way. (Right ePharmacy) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories South African healthcare is set for an efficiency boost with a new medicine dispensing robot that will deliver medication in a more convenient and effective way. The robot, built in partnership with the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and Right ePharmacy, is being showcased at the Intelligent Manufacturing Systems ManuVation 4.0 Workshop in Pretoria. Right ePharmacy specialises in the design of pharmaceutical products. Security was a key consideration of the design of the AVA34 robot. "We started the design and the build of the robot with this in mind. Whereas available robots in the market identify (scan) products during loading, albeit none of them [are] able to dispense medicine bags, the AVA robot is double confirming all dispenses (pickings)," Andre van Biljon, chief technology officer and innovator at Right ePharmacy told News24. The Jobs That Robots Will Never Be Able To Do Artificial Intelligence - It's taking over the world, right? Whatever your opinion of the way in which smart technology is shaping our lives, computerisation and digitalisation have revolutionised the workplace - and robots are an increasingly common sight! But what does that mean for us? For this video, we take a look at the jobs and careers that are safe from robot replacements... At least, for now! Fast dispensing The robot features an ability to scan images and barcodes to make sure the pick is correct. "If in doubt, the item will be discarded and not dispensed to the patient. Competitor products do not do this, without which perfect accuracy during dispensing cannot be guaranteed," Van Biljon added. It features an ability to dispense medication in medicine bags and it can also apply labels and dosage labels within six seconds per item - or 550 sachets per hour. The dosage labels printed are discarded almost immediately and the robot stores no patient information.  The dispensing head of the robot is shown. (Right ePharmacy) AVA34 will mainly be used to dispense chronic medication where medicines in medicine bags or sachets are supplied to patients, said Van Biljon. "In South Africa, this is at least 30% the case of typical items on chronic medication scripts, ie 30% line items on typical chronic scripts are packaged in sachets or medicine bags. This is a significant volume and could be as much as 40 million bags per month for South Africa." He said that in the rest of Africa, up to 80% of line items supplied to chronic patients could be in a sachet form. The AVA34 prototype was completed in December 2018 and Right ePharmacy is now focused on a manufacturing process. "We have completed a working prototype by the end of 2018 and started to exhibit the unit. Out next step is the digitisation of the design followed by its production planning," Van Biljon said. High capacity use AVA34 is not the first of its kind, but is designed for high capacity use unlike, for example, the Evondos E300 machine which is designed for home use. The cost of the AVA34 will be determined once the machine is in production, Van Biljon added.   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine. Quick Guide to Mauritius Approximately 3 075 km from SA, the island paradise of Mauritius covers a relatively small area of 2 040 km2 and is one of the hottest destinations for SA travellers. Here's why (Photos: iStock) Venezuela health crisis: Euronews sees hospital shortages up close Euronews correspondent Anelise Borges speaks to doctors and patients in a Venezuela hospital, and sees first hand the level of the crisis. Mass powercuts in South Africa, sabotage denied South Africa has suffered a third day of powercuts caused by major problems at the main energy supplier Eskom. The government has only recently announced plans to split the company up. How to speak 'Black Panther' The official language of Wakanda is isiXhosa - also spoken in parts of South Africa South Africa: Muti - a threat to nature In order to meet the huge demand for the traditional remedies known as 'muti', plants in South Africa are being harvested on a scale that is no longer sustainable. The pepper-bark tree, for example, is widely used, even though it is endangered. AusCann Group Holdings (ASX:AC8) targeting cannabinoid pharma products for 2019 13 Sep 2018 - AusCann Group Holdings Limited (ASX:AC8) Managing Director, Elaine Darby talks about the company's final dose cannabinoid capsule study, 2018 crop yields, production and outlook. South Africa's venomous and most dangerous spiders Do you know how to spot a potentially dangerous spider? Learn about South Africa's venomous spiders and how to protect your family. 8 Incredible hikes in SA that will clear the mind South Africa is blessed with some of the best hiking trails in the world, but here's just a few to get you started on planning your next trek through nature. Trump weighs into South Africa's contested issue of land reform U.S. President Donald Trump is wading into a debate over the highly disproportionate ownership of land by whites in South Africa. Pretoria rejects his claim of "large scale killing of farmers". Matthew Larotonda and Ed Stoddard report. AusCann moves forward in cannabinoid hard shell capsules 31 Jan 2019 - Cannabis company AusCann Group (ASX:AC8) has advanced the development of cannabinoid hard shell capsules. South Africa's white farmers seek role in land reform as economic pressure grows White South African farmers are seeking a role in land reform as the ruling ANC moves to change the constitution to allow for the expropriation of white-owned land to rectify racial ownership disparities. 'Our rail system has gone to the dogs' - DA protests at Prasa offices The Democratic Alliance held a picket outside the offices of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA) in Hatfield, Pretoria on Wednesday. Come Dine with Me SA is back! The SAFTA award winning series returns for a fifth season from Monday 11 March on BBC Brit (DStv 120). Mayne Pharma Group posts 35% increase in underlying half year profit 22 Feb 2019 - Pharmaceutical company Mayne Pharma Group (ASX:MYX) released their half year results today showing underlying net profit after tax up 35 per cent to $21.1 million from the prior corresponding period. S.Africa's EFF party supporters arrive ahead of Manifesto launch Supporters of South Africa's far-left Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) arrive at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve, Pretoria, ahead of the party's manifesto launch. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. Johannesburg's grandest old colonial club seeks new image With its imposing columned facade, hunting trophies and oil portraits, the Rand Club in Johannesburg's city centre is a relic of South Africa's colonial and apartheid past. But Alicia Thompson, a black woman born in Johannesburg, is seeking to rep... Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. Why SA offers the ultimate camping holiday South Africa is the ultimate camping destination - from our suitable climate to an extraordinarily diverse selection of camping spots - whether you opt to pitch your tent in Kruger, along the Garden Route or along the East Coast. A holidaymaker's guide to SA's Sunshine Coast Spring has sprung and it's time to chase the sun in South Africa, and where better than to chase it all the way to its homeland on the Eastern Cape shores of the Sunshine Coast. WATCH: Protesters to Ramaphosa: Give us the money you give to the buffalo The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) and other trade unions took to the streets in Cape Town on Thursday to protest against police brutality and low wages. Newborn baby rescued from storm drain in SAfrica Rescue workers in South Africa pulled a newborn baby from a storm drain in a four-hour operation that ended with applause and cheers from onlookers. The death-defying megaloops of the world's best kitesurfers at King of the Air in South Africa Red Bull King of the Air 2019 kicked off with riders defying the laws of gravity in their quest for the biggest heights. Newborn baby girl pulled out of South African storm drain Emergency services were called after cries were heard coming from the drain in Newlands East, near Durban in South Africa. Following a three-hour rescue operation, police are now investigating how the baby got there in the first place. Tiny S. Africa beach restaurant crowned best in world When it comes to fine dining, the isolated South African fishing village of Paternoster probably wouldn't be the first place you'd think of. And yet, a tiny beach restaurant in this town in South Africa's Western Cape has been crowned the world's ... WATCH: Roaring trade for some small businesses amidst load shedding gloom Last Sunday Eskom implemented load shedding for the first time since December 2019. While this has resulted in major inconvenience and loss of income for ordinary South Africans and most businesses, some are seeing a sharp increase in trade as a dire AB expects high quality cricket in Mzansi Super League Tshwane Spartans captain AB de Villiers admits that he is proud of South Africa hosting its own T20 tournament and expects an entertaining Mzansi Super League. WATCH: Mnangagwa and and his gangster must leave Zimbabwe alone - Zimbabweans A number of protesters marched to the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria on Wednesday in solidarity with their families who've been affected by the total shutdown in Zimbabwe. WATCH: Mnangagwa and and his gangster must leave Zimbabwe alone - Zimbabweans Protesters marched to the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria on Wednesday in solidarity with their families who've been affected by the total shutdown in Zimbabwe A penguin sperm bank has been set up in South Africa to tackle their severe decline in numbers African penguins are the only penguin species listed as endangered, with just 50,000 breeding pairs left from some 5 million 20 years ago. Quick Guide to Lesotho No matter what the weather may be, the Kingdom of Lesotho offers holidaymakers remote countryside, varied natural landscapes and unique cultural heritage to explore. (Photos: iStock) Giraffe gives lion a piggy-back ride Africa's version of Uber? South African elections set for May 8: president South Africa will go to polls on May 8, President Cyril Ramaphosa announces as he set out his stall for the election in a state-of-the-nation address focused on reviving the economy. South African chef reaches gastronomic heaven as tables turn A restaurant in a tiny fishing village in South Africa has put its stamp on the international gastronomy circuit after winning the acclaimed title of 'restaurant of the year'. Cruising from Durban to Pomene - and the craziness in-between Onboard the MSC Musica, taking a trip from port city Durban in South Africa to Mozambique's tropical Pomene can be quite a madhouse holiday. 78,000 x 550? This boy knows the answer Sibahle Zwane is only 10, but his maths skills have made him an internet sensation in South Africa. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Here are 7 things you may not have known about Babes Wodumo She's one of the most popular female artists in South Africa at the moment, but how well do you actually know Babes Wodumo? (Photos: Gallo Images) Who should own South Africa's land? Plans to redistribute land from white farmers to landless blacks are raising deep feelings. Here's why. Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. South Africa's contestant is crowned Miss Universe South Africa's Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters has been crowned Miss Universe. The 22-year-old, who recently earned a business management degree, beat 92 other women from around the world. South Africa pledges $4.9 bln Eskom bailout South Africa will give state power utility Eskom 69 billion rand ($4.9 billion) over three years, Finance Minister Tito Mboweni said while delivering the key part of the country's budget on Wednesday. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Keepie-uppie queen dazzles crowds around Africa Tanzanian ball juggler Hadhara Charles Mjeje has turned into a viral sensation thanks to her impressive football skills. Hadhara, 29, revealed that she started juggling to earn money for her two sons. She has since dazzled crowds in several countr...   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.