Duncan Alfreds The fire burning near the Franschhoek Pass is still out of control, despite the heavy presence of firefighters battling the blaze. The fire started on Monday. "It's out of control, very inaccessible in a very mountainous area," James-Brent Styan, spokesperson for the Western Cape Department of Local Government, Environmental Affairs and Development Planning, told News24 on Wednesday. READ: Franschhoek Pass closed due to raging veld fire WATCH: Firefighters battle blaze in Franschhoek mountains Firefigthers have been battling a large blaze in the Franschhoek mountains since Monday, when it broke out in the Mooiwater area. He said that 189 firefighters from multiple agencies and five helicopters were on the scene. "I don't know whether the choppers are flying, because there's a lot of smoke and they have to ensure that the crews are safe." Firefighters from the Cape Winelands District, Fire Protection Agency and CapeNature were working to contain the fire. There was no danger to property or people at the moment, said Styan. "They're (firefighters) trying to keep it (the fire) in a certain area and to prevent it from coming down the mountain," he added.  #FranschhoekFire update via Cape Winelands DMThe Cape Winelands District Municipality's Fire Services report that the night was calm. The firefighters gained some ground on the fire in certain areas, and lost some in others. pic.twitter.com/FgfesOeGTz  #Franschhoek this morning. pic.twitter.com/0N4BlVkysA  Traffic officials closed the Franschhoek Pass earlier this week because of the fire, News24 reported. Its closure has been on-and-off as firefighting efforts continue. "There is still a very large area that is at risk around the current burn scar. A total of 2 800 hectares of veld has been destroyed so far," said Jo-Anne Otto, spokesperson for the Cape Winelands District Municipality's fire services. "Teams will continue with monitoring, controlling the fire line and mopping-up activities, until the fire has reached the area where direct attack can be rolled out." The weather is not doing the firefighters any favours. Data from the South African Weather Service suggests a 0% probability of rain for the rest of the week, as well as high temperatures and light winds in the area. Styan said the annual fire season was becoming more of a challenge every year. "Every year, it seems to be getting worse. A big part of the reason is this terrible drought; the veld is like tinder and it doesn't take much to cause it to ignite."   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Fire rages through Paarl mountains Firefighters are battling a fire raging through the mountains in Paarl, Western Cape. WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. We would like to win that land in Stellenbosch because it belongs to us - 'Azania' residents Application for an eviction order by the owner of a plot of private land that people are building shacks on in Stellenbosch was postponed to the 29th of August today WATCH: Political party 'slaughters' watermelon on Cape beach in video stunt A small political party has staged a mock sacrifice of a watermelon on a Cape Town beach in response to the slaughter of a sheep in December. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. WATCH: Protesters to Ramaphosa: Give us the money you give to the buffalo The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) and other trade unions took to the streets in Cape Town on Thursday to protest against police brutality and low wages. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.