Tammy Petersen WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. Both the teacher and a pupil involved in a physical altercation at Sans Souci Girls High School in Cape Town have been suspended, the Western Cape Education Department has confirmed. "The learner and the educator are not at school today [Thursday],” spokesperson Jessica Shelver said. "They have both been informed by the school governing body that disciplinary steps will be taken against them. They have been suspended pending the disciplinary hearing." Pupils and teachers have been offered counselling, Shelver told News24. The school was also investigating various programmes to offer teachers on the "management of discipline". Counter assault charges were laid by the 33-year-old woman and the mother of the teenager after the pupil on Tuesday shoved the teacher, who retaliated by striking the child across the face. The girl’s mother, whose name is known to News24, on Wednesday said her daughter was a “strong girl and will get over this”, but said she was frustrated, saddened and disappointed. The video clip, which appeared to have been recorded by another pupil, showed an apparent verbal quarrel over a book escalating. The footage of the assault has gone viral on social media. A group of pupils at the school on Wednesday staged a protest in support of the teacher. They made a poster which read: "It's not about race". Education MEC Debbie Schafer has said the teacher’s actions were unacceptable and that no form of corporal punishment in schools would be tolerated. The teacher in the video was an SGB appointee. Meet the teacher who wears school uniform Alex Maina Kariuki is a school principal with a difference. He insists on wearing the same school uniform as his students. Dresden teacher wary of far-right AfD online platform A Dresden teacher recalls what life was like under communism. That's why the far-right AfD party's new online platform reminds her of the days when students could denounce teachers. Parents sue over district’s policy to arm teachers Parents filed a lawsuit to block a Pennsylvania school district from allowing teachers to carry guns in school, the latest in a debate playing out in many states over whether it's wise to arm educators to protect students from mass shooters. Why classrooms are starting to resemble arcades A vast array of apps, websites and software in schools today borrow elements from video games to help teachers connect with students living technology-infused lives. Los Angeles teachers end week-long strike The union for more than 30,000 striking Los Angeles teachers clinched a tentative contract deal with the second-largest U.S. school district on Tuesday, paving the way for classes to resume for nearly half a million students after a week-long walkout Bulgaria adopts apprenticeships in scramble for workers In addition to traditional subjects taught at school, students in Bulgaria are learning practical skills such as cooking and factory work to make them more employable. With the fastest-falling population in the world, Bulgaria is increasingly turn... Alec Baldwin teaches 'Trump School' Comedian Alec Baldwin headlined a state Democratic party banquet teaching school lessons about Donald Trump. Arizona teachers go on strike Arizona is the latest state where teachers are walking off the job to demand better pay and more school funding. Movie Report: Red Sparrow In the mystery thriller 'Red Sparrow', we follow Jennifer Lawrence as a Russian ballerina who gets recruited into 'Sparrow School'. This isn't your typical 'nose in the books' education though. Instead, the girls learn to use their bodies as weapons. French teachers protest against Macron reform plan Nearly one in two high school teachers, and one in four primary school teachers, go on strike against President Macron's plans to reform France's education sector and cut jobs - the first time all teaching unions have agreed to strike together sin... School teacher launches appeal for surrogate after bowel cancer A primary school teacher whose womb was shrivelled by radiation, has taken the unusual step of launching an online appeal for a surrogate - after treatment for bowel cancer at 29 left her unable to carry a baby. Is this the most patriotic Canadian? High school teacher Dave Suchanek is so patriotic about Canada, he's created an alter ego: Flagman. WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. Online learning at your own pace in Brazil In Brazil, schooling is compulsory for children between the ages of 7 and 14, but there is little state monitoring. Chinese students' viral 'shuffle' dance The school's principal decided to ditch the traditional workout for something a little more modern. Meet the girl whose teacher is a radio Could broadcasting school lessons solve Africa's education crisis? The BBC spoke to a pupil in the Democratic Republic of Congo who is learning through the radio. Bomb threat empties Sandy Hook on anniversary A bomb threat forced the evacuation of the Sandy Hook Elementary School on Friday, a day of memorial services and moments of silence to mark the sixth anniversary of the massacre of 20 first-graders and six educators. Why is Turkey becoming a hub for higher education? Turkey is becoming a hub for higher education for students from across the world. But what is driving the change? #Higher #Education #Turkey US schools walk out over gun violence Students were demanding gun legislation that promotes school safety, 19 years since the Columbine massacre. Parallel worlds in education Bjork and Tom both attend schools in Germany. The system is supposed to be egalitarian. But she has access to the latest technology at her private school, while at his public school not even the fire safety equipment works properly. Biologists Believe Trees Can Speak. And It's a Language We Can Learn Can trees talk to one another? Researchers believe it makes a lot of sense; now it's teaching humans their language that's the issue. PUBLIC REVIEW | Why Cheat India | Emraan narrates faulty education system Based on fractured and faulty education system, film 'Why Cheat India' hit theaters today. French police arrest hundreds of students across the country French students have been blocking access to high schools across France in protest of President Emmanuel Macron's education reforms. #France #Franceprotests #giletsjaunes #Macron David Oakes: Schools should teach lesser known Shakespeare plays Victoria star David Oakes has said he would like to see the lesser known Shakespeare plays taught in schools.

The actor, best known for playing Prince Ernest in the ITV period drama, said an attempt should be made to broaden people's horizons, ra... The anger propelling teachers into politics Over the past few months, massive teacher protests have shut down schools across the country. Now, the fight for education funding is prompting some to run for office. Teaching the World with VIPKID's Cindy Mi VIPKID's Cindy Mi talks to Megan Rose Dickey about the importance of personalized learning, recruiting and retaining teachers, and changes to the edtech landscape. Pakistan's solar-powered schools for the underprivileged A 'SLUM' school run by Rohayl Varind is Pakistan's first solar night school. Why Kenyan school children say 'no', loudly School girls and boys in Kenyan schools are being taught self defence and how to report sexual and physical attacks. Powerlifting school teacher finds success at 50 Lucille Rowan is a weightlifter who won Commonwealth silver at powerlifting a year after first picking up a weight aged almost 50. Drake still texts his high school teacher Drake has revealed he still texts his high school teacher - despite dropping out of school to pursue his career - as she congratulated him for his recent chart success. Broncos president: Finding 'new normal' critical for Humboldt Students returned to school in Humboldt, Saskatchewan, on Tuesday following Friday's bus crash that killed 15 people. The director of education for Greater Saskatoon Catholic Schools says the students were "happy to be together." Teacher strike delayed in Los Angeles The teacher union representing 35,000 Los Angeles members is postponing the start of a strike till next Monday. They had planned to strike Thursday, but the possibility of a court-ordered delay of the strike prompted the union move. WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. Ed Sheeran slams music funding cuts Ed Sheeran has slammed cuts to music education and revealed he was "benefited hugely" from the music education provided at his state school. Trump's safety panel weighs in on arming teachers President Donald Trump's school safety commission said it should be left to states and schools to decide whether to arm teachers, but Education Secretary Betsy DeVos said she urges schools to "seriously consider" the option. Arizona educator becomes state teacher boss Spurred on by teacher protests, scores of teachers ran for office this fall, with many of them winning. They include Kathy Hoffman, who was sworn in Monday as Arizona's new Superintendent of Public Instruction. Raqqa's schools resemble battlegrounds More than a year since the United States and its allies defeated Islamic State in the Syrian city of Raqqa, many of its schools still resemble battlegrounds that are unfit for purpose. Silicon Valley - Can Games Create an Education Fit for the Future? Imagine a school where playing video games is encouraged during classes and may even replace exams. A new educational programme uses SimCity to test children on vital problem-solving skills. Thousands of Los Angeles teachers striking Los Angeles teachers went on strike Monday after talks failed in the nation's second largest school disctrict. Schools remain open and the district superintendent said 'students are safe and learning'. Cardi B visits former elementary school Cardi B just shocked and surprised teachers and students at her old elementary school when she paid them a visit! EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. Doug Ford won’t commit to future of full-day kindergarten Ontario’s premier won’t guarantee that full-day kindergarten will last beyond the next school year. Education consultations by Doug Ford’s government are also looking at possibly removing class-size caps for primary grades. WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. Los Angeles teachers OK contract, will end strike Los Angeles teachers have approved a contract deal between their union and school officials, ending a six-day strike in the nation's second-largest district. In Pakistan public education suffocates under surging population At the Tanjai Cheena school in northwest Pakistan students squeeze into makeshift classrooms where plastic tarps serve as walls and electricity is sparse, as a surging population overstretches the country's fragile education system. Tentative deal reached to end LA teachers strike A tentative deal was reached Tuesday between Los Angeles school officials and the teachers union that will allow educators to return to classrooms after a six-day strike against the nation's second-largest district, officials said. Students meet extremists in 'poli-rad' class Teachers at an Ohio school invite members of America's political extremes into the classroom to engage with students. The goal is to teach students to question unfamiliar ideas with respect while building critical thinking skills. South Korea - the price of success South Korea's education system is notorious for the pressure it places on school students. Often they have little time for hobbies or friends. One start-up wants to make learning more fun.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.