Sesona Ngqakamba Angry residents of Diepsloot barricade N14 with stones and burning tyres.  (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The N14 South and North road in Pretoria was on lockdown on Wednesday morning after angry Diepsloot residents protested over lack of electricity. The protesters barricaded the road with stones and burning tyres, police spokesperson Kay Makhubele said. "It's alleged that they have been without electricity for over three days, hence they are taking to the street," Makhubele said. Diepsloot police and JMPD officers were on the scene monitoring the situation and redirecting traffic. Also read: Mass service delivery protest hits Plettenberg Bay Wednesday's protests come after residents shut down Nirvana Drive in Lenasia after illegal electricity connections were removed on Tuesday, News24 reported. The protest was sparked by a joint operation of City Power, the police and the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) to remove illegal connections. Several exposed wires, used to connect electricity from street lights along Lenasia Drive, were removed. Protest action on the N14 at the new off-ramp in Diepsloot. Road blocked both sides@Abramjee @EWNTraffic pic.twitter.com/iEct4pfoe4 KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Burning tyres, logs and truck light up Howick sky KwaZulu-Natal police say the violent protest that forced the closure of the N3 in the vicinity of Howick in KZN Midlands on Thursday night was sparked by the arrest of community members who had allegedly invaded a private property in the area. WATCH: Community protests over housing in Mariannridge, Durban Mariannridge residents blockaded roads with burning tires and tree logs during a protest over housing in the area on Tuesday. WATCH. WATCH: Pretoria West streets gridlocked as residents burn tyres and block roads Motorists and commuters have been warned to avoid several parts of Pretoria West on Thursday owing to protest action that started in the early hours of the morning. WATCH: 'We have nothing' - Vredenburg residents demand better service delivery On Tuesday, residents of Vredenburg in the Western Cape – who have had enough of living in what they described as a "dump" – took to the streets with sjamboks, sticks and knobkieries to demand better service delivery. 'Our rail system has gone to the dogs' - DA protests at Prasa offices The Democratic Alliance held a picket outside the offices of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA) in Hatfield, Pretoria on Wednesday. WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. WATCH: Weekend hail leaves parts of Pretoria covered in ice Severe weather conditions hit large parts of Gauteng this past weekend after the South African Weather Service (SAWS) issued a notice for severe thunderstorms across the province. WATCH: Armed local farmer walks into demonstration in Greyton Western Cape police are probing an incident involving a man who was caught on camera on Monday, wielding a firearm during a demonstration in Greyton. WATCH: Protesters reclaim Clifton beach Lobby group Black People's National Crisis Committee arranged a protest at Clifton Fourth Beach on Friday evening following reports that private security company ecurity company PPA Security allegedly closed down the beach at sunset last Sunday. WATCH: Vehicles set alight during apparent housing protest in Nyanga Members of the Ocean View community in Cape Town took to the streets on Thursday to voice their frustrations at shootings and other violence in the area. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. WATCH: Truck set alight during protest in Isando A truck was set alight allegedly by protesting workers in the plastics sector in Isando, east of Johannesburg on Thursday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.