Thabang Kuaho @Thab_Journo The Traflgar Swimming Pool has been non-operational for almost three years.PHOTO: thabang kuaho Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Most people love the idea of having public pools in their communities. These pools serve as a safe recreational space for residents during hot weather. Sadly, residents of Woodstock do not have the privilege of going for a dip in the public pool due to the lack of infrastructure at the Trafalgar swimming pool. The pool has been non-operational for almost three years after the City of Cape Town was forced to close it due to “health and safety risks”. “The grouted areas around the wall and floor tiles were eroded and were in a poor state as a result of the use of chemicals over the years. This was also identified as a health and safety risk to the patrons,” Mayco member for community services and health Zahid Badroodien said. Badroodien said the pool needs to undergo extensive repairs before residents can use it again. “Walls and floors are not in good condition and broken tiles were deposited in the pool. The expansion joints required repairs as they posed a safety hazard as well as an area that is usually prone to water leaks,” he added. Mildred Blou (38) has been living in Woodstock all her life and says it breaks her heart that her two-year-old son might never have the opportunity to use the pool. “At two, he already loves spending time in water. It is always a struggle getting him out of the bath,” Blou says. As a child Blou loved spending Saturday afternoons with friends and family at the pool, something her son has never experienced in his community. “We do go to pools in other areas, but it’s always a struggle and we do not do it often.” She said it breaks her heart to see one of the only things that gets children off the streets, in such a state. The pool was first built in the 1940s and Badroodien said the estimated cost of repairs is R3.2m. The upgrades will make the pool functional for the next 15 years.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.