Kaveel Singh WATCH- Durban metro police officer among 3 dead in CBD shooting A metro police officer is among three people who were killed in a shooting near the KwaZulu-Natal High Court in Durban on Monday morning. A mortuary van at the scene of the Durban shooting. (Kaveel Singh, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) is investigating whether a Durban metro police officer was responsible for Monday's shooting which claimed three lives, including his own. IPID spokesperson Moses Dlamini on Tuesday said there was also speculation about whether the officer turned the gun on himself. He said it was thought that the officer's gun was thrown out of the first-floor window of his apartment. "This is [obviously] unusual for a person who shot themselves. We are currently investigating to determine if the policeman indeed shot anyone. Also, if his gun was used, was he the one who shot those people?" He, however, said IPID was not ruling out anything. WATCH: Metro cop among 3 killed in 'bloodbath' shooting near Durban High Court "At this stage, we do not know if the policeman is responsible for shooting, because the firearm appears to have been thrown out the window." The constable, 39, was found dead in his apartment along with two others. Five other people who were at the scene were also shot and injured while another person escaped unharmed. Investigators were seen leaving Baker Street with a Glock 17 firearm, a standard issue for metro police officers. Dlamini said that if investigations reveal the officer is responsible, IPID would take over the investigation. "We are working closely with SAPS investigators to a point where we are able to determine who is responsible. If it is the police officer, we will take over the investigation." Rescue Care spokesperson Garrith Jamieson, whose team was part of the first responders, described the scene as an "absolute bloodbath".  WATCH: Residents cry for help as man shot dead in Durban road A 32-year-old male suspect will appear in court on a charge of murder on Tuesday after a video shows Chatsworth community members crowding around a dead body in the street. WATCH: Shooting at KZN court - two confirmed dead At least two people have been shot and killed at the Durban Magistrate's Court. WATCH: 1 dead, 1 injured in Valhalla Park gang-related shooting One person was shot dead and another injured in a gang-related shooting in Valhalla Park, Cape Town, on Thursday morning. WATCH: Eyewitness films dramatic scenes after M1 Joburg shooting Two people are recovering in hospital after a shooting on the Jan Smuts offramp of the M1 north highway in Johannesburg. VIDEO FROM THE SCENE: Three men injured in apparent hostage drama at Randfontein church A man was shot and two others were injured while trying to escape an alleged hostage situation at a church in Randfontein, Johannesburg. WATCH: Forensic teams comb crime scene after Mihalik shooting A police officer calls for assistance moments after criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik was shot dead in his car in Green Point, Cape Town. WATCH: New footage shows armed men fleeing after Joburg M1 shootout New footage has emerged giving further insight into the shooting on Johannesburg's M1 on Monday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.