Jenni Evans WATCH: Pet dog dies in Sea Point apartment block blaze A Sea Point apartment was destroyed in a high-rise fire that was put out before it spread to the rest of the building on Wednesday. An apartment block in Sea Point that was on fire. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Sea Point apartment was destroyed in a high-rise fire that was put out before it spread to the rest of the building on Wednesday. No people were injured, but a Yorkshire terrier died in the blaze. Three fire engines were present outside the apartment block when News24 arrived on the scene on Holmfirth Street, off Sea Point Main Road. Shocked residents gathered outside with their pets, staring up at the charred wall and window frame of the affected apartment. "I was sleeping when I heard people screaming and I woke up and walked out," said one barefoot man in a T-shirt and shorts. Body corporate chairperson Jacques Weber said the fire had broken out quickly and that residents were evacuated with the help of the building's security guards. They had also moved their cars to make way for the firefighters. He praised the fire department, who were there quickly. "Their first truck was here within no less than about four minutes, so just well done to the City of Cape Town fire services," he said. One unit had been destroyed, but nobody was injured. "Unfortunately one of the owners' pets succumbed in the fire," he said. He said that, due to the possibility of the excessive heat causing structural damage, inspectors would examine the building before allowing anyone back in. Other shocked residents of the building gathered outside, but did not want to speak when approached for comment. The cause of the fire was not yet known, but the initial thinking was that it might have been an electrical fault.  Dog rescued from frozen pond in Ohio A fireman crawls across ice to rescue a dog stuck in a frozen pond in Norton, Ohio. His new canine companion started paddling towards dry land once help arrived. Special Pets as an accessory We all remember the days when celebrities brought their dogs along to glamorous red carpet events. But are pets as an accessory still a trend? Let's find out what our experts Alexis and Kim have to say about it. 'Fluffytorium' opens in London to celebrate cuddly pets A Fluffytorium opens for two days, giving the public the chance to stroke and play with some of the fluffiest cats and dogs. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Hamsters and puppies get divine blessing Dogs, cats and even a hamster were blessed outside a Madrid church on Thursday morning, to celebrate the Feast of St Anthony the Abbot, Spain's patron saint of animals. Meghan talks about her rescue dog during animal charity visit The Duchess of Sussex held dogs and met staff at the animal welfare charity which she now supports as patron. 

Meghan visited the headquarters of Mayhew which works to keep cats and dogs, whether family pets or companions for the homeless, safe a... French 'spiderman' tackles latest climb at London skyscraper A skyscraper climber, dubbed the French Spiderman, has struck again - this time at one of London's tallest buildings. WATCH: MyCiTi employees' 'wildcat' strike continued on Tuesday A "wildcat" strike by MyCiTi employees appeared to enter its second day on Tuesday as the bus service announced disruptions on several routes around Cape Town. Why Cape Town is turning off its taps South Africa's second largest city is in the midst of a severe drought. WATCH: Cape Town's karate kid raises tournament money through hard work and community support A pint-sized karate kid from Lansdowne in Cape Town has unleashed his inner entrepreneur, raising money to take part in a national karate tournament by selling atchar, dried fruit and sauces at a stall in Rylands. Footage shows Manchester apartment fire Two floors of the tower can be seen ablaze, a scene described by an eyewitness as "horrifying". WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. VIDEO: 'We pay R2 to use mall toilets' – Cape Town informal settlement residents demand basic servic Five Cape Town communities joined with social justice movements to march to the Cape Town Civic Centre on Thursday. 

The protesters expressed exasperation over the lack of basic services in informal settlements in the city. Meet the rat-loving woman who dresses up her pets for Instagram Meet New Zealand pet owner Anisah Hanna who went viral after dressing up her rats for Instagram. WATCH: Zille breaks ground on R3bn mixed-income residential project Western Cape Premier Helen Zille said the "pioneering" housing project expected at the site of the derelict old Conradie Hospital in Cape Town could "make or break" the current housing system. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. The Penthouse Matthew must stage an opulent, two-story penthouse suite that belongs to a wealthy entrepreneur. 'French Spiderman' scales building in Manila French climber Alain Robert also known as the ''French Spiderman'' climbed Manila's 47-storey GT Towers on Tuesday. Water tower penthouse offering bird's-eye views up for sale A penthouse in a converted water tower offering a bird's-eye view of the Hertfordshire countryside is on sale for GBP750,000.

The property occupies the top two floors of the building, which was built in 1932 to serve Shenley Hospital, near Radlett. Going drag racing with a politician Watch as City of Cape Town's mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith answers questions while sitting passenger at a legal racing event. It's time to involve the entire security cluster - Blade Nzimande after latest Cape Town train fire Firefighters have arrived at Cape Town train station to battle yet another train-related blaze after thick, black smoke permeated the air above the station on Tuesday. WATCH: High speed N1 Cape Town crash leaves BMW driver critical Video of a BMW crashing into a barrier on the N1 in Cape Town and spinning out of control has gone viral online. Tour a loft in Stockholm's Old Town When their second child was born, Nina and Jacob Salo knew they needed more space. So, with the help of architects, they used the generous loft above their apartment to create a flat that's big enough for the family. WATCH: Huge cobra on the loose in Pretoria apartment block's drainage system Residents of a block of flats in Pretoria East are in for a slithery night as a venomous snouted cobra has taken refuge in the drainage system. Dozens evacuated as 100 firefighters tackle blaze at block of flats Around 100 firefighters are tackling a blaze at a block of flats in north-west London. Woman found dead after 'gas explosion' at flat in Harrow A woman has died after a suspected gas explosion at a flat in in Fulbeck Way, Harrow, north-west London, that set the building on fire. Saint-Petersburg: residents stuck in Soviet 'Kommunalkas' In Saint Petersburg's largest communal apartment, people barely talk to each other. Living conditions here are dismal and most residents dream of leaving the place for good. Located in the centre of the former imperial capital, the "kommunalka" fl... Firefighters tackle blaze at Trump Tower The New York Fire Department is attending the scene of a fire at Trump Tower in Manhattan.

A blaze was reported on the top floor of the building at 7am local time. High-rise 'hog hotel' with 1000 pigs per floor On Yaji Mountain in southern China, they are checking in the pigs a thousand head per floor in high-rise 'hog hotels'. Journey ends for skyscraping raccoon A raccoon that climbed to the top of a 25-story St. Paul, Minnesota, skyscraper early on Wednesday has been captured, but not before becoming a star on the web, where it won the hearts of followers around the globe. WATCH: Fire engulfs Lion's Head Families living in Sea Point, Cape Town evacuated their homes on Sunday evening as the flames that engulfed the lower slopes of Lion's Head near Quarry Hill were coming down on them. A history of high-rise fire safety Fire safety in high-rise buildings in Britain has been an issue since they became popular after World War Two. Woman arrested after deadly blaze in upscale Paris area A woman has been detained as part of a probe into a fire in an apartment building in Paris that killed at least eight people and injured about 30, authorities said on Tuesday. How can you make tower blocks safe? We spoke to residents and the people who run a tower block in Birmingham. London fire: Mayor to ask 'questions' Sadiq Khan says questions will be asked after a blaze tore through a 24-storey residential tower block overnight. Pillar Talk Matthew is tasked with staging a condo in a prestigious new building -- the tallest in the city. The view is incredible, but it's not the first thing people notice. WATCH: Stun grenades fired, rocks hurled in tense standoff between police and MyCiTi strikers Striking MyCiTi workers have been released from the Cape Town civic centre, after the building was placed on lockdown when protests began on the ground floor. WATCH: Striking MyCiTi workers removed from civic centre with force The City of Cape Town's civic centre has been locked down after striking MyCiTi bus employees protested on the ground floor of the building. Watpac awarded $206m contract with ACU 06 Dec 2018 - Watpac (ASX:WTP) has been awarded a $206 million design and construct contract for the Australian Catholic University’s Saint Teresa of Kolkata Building in Melbourne. Police discover cannabis factory found in Birmingham high rise block West Midlands Police Cannabis Team found a cannabis factory through 31 rooms and across three floors of a derelict city tower block. Officers found plants with an estimated street value of GBP500,000, along with living quarters and stocks of food ... Ariana Grande's pet pig 'starting to bite' Ariana Grande and Pete Davidson's pet pig is "starting to bite", as Pete admits he now realises why people don't keep the animals as house pets. Viral challenge sees dogs hold eggs in their mouths A viral challenge sees dog owners put eggs in their pets' mouths to show how gently some can grip objects.

Dominic Barfield, senior lecturer at the Royal Veterinary College, warned the challenge comes with a risk of choking and salmonella. Police launch murder probe after death at London apartment block Bethany-Maria Beales, 22, died at The Heron apartment building after suffering injuries consistent with a fall from a height on May 26. Police have launched a murder investigation into her death. Animal charity searches for UK's fattest pets A couch-potato lifestyle and excessive food consumption is fuelling a four-legged obesity crisis, warns PDSA vets.

To help tackle the problem, the charity is searching for the UK's chubbiest cats, dogs and rabbits. Where will UK pets receive the most gifts this Christmas? With Christmas just ten days away, it's the nation's beloved family dogs that are most looking forward to a visit from 'Santa Paws', with Amazon revealing that 74 per cent of all pet Christmas presents have been bought for our canine companions. Special: Robert Gaudio People's love for their pets can go pretty far. And when financially the sky's the limit, some A-listers are willing to spend a fortune on their loving companion's wellbeing. National Veterinary Care to acquire New Zealand’s Pet Doctors Group 12 Sep 2018 - National Veterinary Care (ASX:NVL) has today announced the acquisition of the Pet Doctors Group in New Zealand.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.