Sesona Ngqakamba (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Karoo National Park rangers are still searching for a lion which is on the loose outside Beaufort West, Western Cape. But rangers hope that chances of finding the wild animal are greater after the discovery of a female eland carcass at a nearby farm on Tuesday. "A lion with a full belly is likely to sleep for some time. This will thus work to our advantage and we can gain time on the lion," said park manager Nico van der Walt. The rangers have been searching for the escaped lion for six days. Van der Walt said the search party included 14 rangers and about six volunteers from neighbouring farms. He said the search team followed the spoor until sunset on Tuesday, covering an area of about 11.8km from the park. The search resumed on Wednesday morning. On Tuesday News24 reported that Reynold "Rey T" Thakhuli, SANParks general manager for Media, PR and Stakeholder Relations, said high rainfall in the area had created a hole under a fence, which the lion took advantage of to escape from the 1 000km2 park. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Kruger buffalo flicks lion into air like a toy The predator – which looks like it's in dire need of a meal – was asleep when a buffalo charged at it and flipped it into the air before chasing it off. Giraffe gives lion a piggy-back ride Africa's version of Uber? Buffalo attempts to rescue baby elephant from lion's mouth In a rare show of bravery, a herd of buffalo tried to save a baby elephant from a pride of hungry lions. The video shows the lions on top of the upturned calf, trying to kill it. A herd of buffalo from a nearby watering hole heard the commotion. Cheeky Lion Cub Bites Mother's Tail This little lion cub tested its mother's patience... by trying to bite her tail. Lioness responds with a klap after being rudely awakened by cheeky male A naughty male lion sneaked up on a lioness while she was dozing in the road, and she wasn't too impressed about the interruption. Survivor recounts battle against mountain lion Bashing a mountain lion in the head with a rock didn’t work, so Travis Kauffman changed his tactics and suffocated the cat by jamming his foot on its neck. Kauffman recounted the attack in a news conference 10 days after the attack. Tiger killed by potential mate at London Zoo Female Sumatran tiger Melati has been killed by her potential new mate Asim on their first introduction at ZSL London Zoo. The 'last' lion dance costume maker Henry Ng believes he is one of the last people to make the lion dance costume in Singapore. Colorado jogger strangles mountain lion after attack A Colorado jogger strangled a juvenile mountain lion in the foothills of Horsetooth Mountain northwest of Denver, acting in self-defense after the predator attacked him, authorities said on Tuesday. Colette Luke has more. Leopard plays with baby duiker before the inevitable kill At Kruger National Park, a baby duiker was pinned down by a leopard, then licked and cuddled before it tried escaping. Awkward! Three male lions take turns mating with lioness This lioness's milkshake brought all the boy lions to the yard. This is a video of a lioness having a mating party with three male lions - each taking turns and bumping the other away in an almost playful manner. Two cute lion cubs make adorable debut at Vladisovstok zoo A in the Russia’s Far East Vladivostok received two adorable white lion cubs. The rare cubs arrived from Belarus and now are nursed by the zoo’s workers. Due to the rarity of the white lions, the babies have weak immune system and fed every two ho... Hearts will break as you see an eagle take out a baby warthog A baby warthog ran its last run with the family when a martial eagle decided to make it its next meal in Kruger National Park in South Africa. Lion kills North Carolina conservatory worker A lion killed a young worker at a wildlife conservatory in North Carolina Sunday after it got loose from a locked space, the center said. The lion was shot and killed after it attacked 22-year-old Alexandra Black. Runaway lion, wounded elk find home in Russian shelter A lion that escaped from an airport, a crocodile found at a rubbish dump and an elk attacked by stray dogs -- all these animals have found refuge in an unusual private shelter in Russia. Dozens of bears have also passed through the Veles centre, j... Sanbona family safari: A lesson in all manner of animal poop, they're unlikely to forget In this special tract of the little Karoo it is all about the conservation of the animals - including the rare white lion. Ferocious Lion Fight An animal invader got a lion-sized left-hook from its rival. Mongoose refuses to be lion cubs' chew toy While the young lions seem to be enjoying themselves, the mongoose is not having too much fun. Lion calls squad to show hyenas who's the boss of the bush This lion's pride definitely had her back when she was cornered by a group of hyenas trying to steal her kill. It was captured on video in Kruger National Park by 19-year-old student Amber Soames and shared by Latest Sightings. Disney releases Lion King trailer The first trailer of Disney's live-action 'Lion King' remake has been released. New trailer released for Disney's The Lion King Disney have unveiled the trailer for The Lion King set to be released in the UK in July 2019. New trailer released for Disney's The Lion King Disney have unveiled the trailer for The Lion King set to be released in the UK in July 2019.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.