Riaan Grobler The accident scene near Grassmere on Friday.  (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Four people have been killed, including a 13-year-old boy, and 11 others injured on Friday morning following a taxi rollover on the N1 highway in the Grasmere area. "Shortly after 06:00, ER24 paramedics and other services received a call and immediately responded," the emergency services provider said in a statement. "Upon arrival, paramedics found a taxi lying on its side in the centre median. Several passengers had been ejected from the vehicle when it rolled multiple times." According to ER24, paramedics assessed the patients and found that three women and a 13-year-old boy had sustained numerous injuries and showed no signs of life. READ: 13 people injured in Joburg minibus taxi accident "Unfortunately, nothing could be done for them and they were declared dead." Eleven other patients were tended to on the scene. Their injuries ranged from minor to serious. Paramedics treated the patients and provided some with advanced life support interventions. "Once treated, the patients were transported by various services to nearby hospitals for further care." According to ER24, local authorities were on the scene for further investigations. [GRASMERE] – Taxi rollover leaves four dead, eleven injured. https://t.co/ZZYHpQBvJ6 @ewnupdates @eNCA @JacaNews @jour_maine @SABCNewsOnline @_ArriveAlive @FatalMoves @KayaTraffic @POWER987News @yfmtraffic @OpenNewsSA @News24_SA pic.twitter.com/H9MpnuYjJB  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Taxi driver arrested after going viral for driving on the wrong side of the road A taxi driver has been arrested after going viral for driving on the wrong side of the road to avoid traffic in Bryanston. The driver was filmed by a biker who forced him to turn around. WATCH: Minibus taxi smashes into Engen garage shop, injuring 2 A minibus taxi crashed into an Engen QuickShop on Saturday evening, after the driver allegedly lost control of the vehicle. He had been filling up his vehicle at the petrol station. WATCH: Taxi collision leaves 1 dead in Ballito One person has been killed following a collision between a taxi and a light vehicle in Ballito on Saturday afternoon. Watch. WATCH: Durban taxi driver crams 25 commuters into crowded taxi A taxi driver was fined R 5000 after he was found to have 25 passengers in his taxi in Durban last week. WATCH | Wife, colleagues pay tribute to metro cop killed by taxi A Durban metro police officer, who was run over and killed while on duty outside the Galleria Mall in Amanzimtoti, will be laid to rest on Monday morning.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.