Riaan Grobler The scene of the fatal accident on Moloto Road on Monday. (Supplied) (Emer-G-Med) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A sixth person has been confirmed dead following a head-on collision between a bus and an SBV cash-in-transit van on Moloto Road and Kameeldrift in Tshwane on Monday. Transport Minister Blade Nzimande on Tuesday passed on his condolences to the families of the six deceased people. ALSO READ: 5 killed, 10 critically injured in Tshwane bus crash Department of Transport spokesperson Ishmael Mnisi confirmed the death of the sixth victim, who on Tuesday morning succumbed to injuries in hospital. News24 initially reported that five people were killed and another 10 sustained critical injuries. According to Netcare 911 spokesperson Shawn Herbst, approximately 50 people sustained injuries ranging from minor to moderate. "All the patients were transported by various ambulance services to hospitals," Herbst said. "The first few days after an accident like that are critical. More people could likely die," Herbst told News24 on Tuesday. On Monday, the road had been closed off while police concluded investigations. Tshwane emergency spokesperson Johan Pieterse said SAPS and SBV officials were on the scene conducting investigations. "I know everybody is asking whether this was an attempted robbery, but it did not look like that because everything was still intact. I think it was purely driver mistake," Pieterse said.  «Kameeldrif Pretoria» RV7, RV8, A05, A07 and A08 responded to the Moloto road where a Bus and Armoured vehicle had a head on collision.Multiple P1’s and P2’s on scene. Sadly there were also multiple fatalitieshttps://t.co/xX8jPrK1MY @EWNTraffic pic.twitter.com/ZQtLAFqRnC  #MolotoRoad Tragedy Unfolding??PRELIMINARY UPDATE 18h255 Victims Killed!!Info subject to change. Rescue services on scene busy in heavy rain@_ArriveAlive @TrafficRTMC @TrafficSA @jaca_traffic @EWNTraffic @KayaTraffic @Power987Traffic @GP_CommSafety @Abramjee @crimeairnetwork https://t.co/k2HoLd4Sr2   WATCH: Flames engulf Kempton Park bus fleet Quick-acting firefighters in the east of Johannesburg were able to extinguish a blaze that engulfed a fleet of parked vehicles, late last week. VIDEO FROM THE SCENE: Three men injured in apparent hostage drama at Randfontein church A man was shot and two others were injured while trying to escape an alleged hostage situation at a church in Randfontein, Johannesburg. WATCH: Intercape bus driver suspended after being filmed driving recklessly There have been a numerous fatalities and mishaps on SA's roads since the beginning of the festive season.

Now, as we enter the height of celebrations, more reports of risky driving and fatalities have emerged. WATCH- Durban metro police officer among 3 dead in CBD shooting A metro police officer is among three people who were killed in a shooting near the KwaZulu-Natal High Court in Durban on Monday morning. WATCH: Woman kidnapped in Bergbron and robbed in her BMW A woman escaped unscathed after she was taken in her car and robbed on Saturday night in the Randburg suburb of Bergbron. WATCH: Couple caught on camera allegedly using child to rob crèches Concerns have been raised about a couple allegedly using their children to rob crèches and nursery schools in the Johannesburg area. Inside the ANC's Bosasa election war room Bosasa sponsored these war rooms for the past three elections for the ANC, at an estimated cost of R2-million per election. WATCH: 'Is it true?' - The moment Wolfgat staff learn they've won World's Best Restaurant The staff at Wolfgat celebrate the news that the restaurant won world's best restaurant at the inaugural World Restaurant Awards in Paris. WATCH: Bosasa liquidator takes charge of documents, servers Bosasa liquidator Cloete Murray on Friday took charge at the company's headquarters in Krugersdorp following their voluntary liquidation.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.