Riaan Grobler The scene of the crash on the R114.  (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories More than 30 people have been injured - some critical - in a collision involving two minibus taxis and a truck on the R114 close to the Heron Bridge in the Lanseria area on Friday morning. According to Emer-G-Med spokesperson Jurgen Kotze, one of the taxis could not brake in time and collided with the truck. A second taxi then rammed into the first. Kotze told News24 that more than 30 patients were being treated on the scene for injuries ranging from minor to critical. Other emergency services were also on the scene. JMPD spokesperson Chief Superintendent Wayne Minnaar said he would provide more information once he had been briefed about the incident. This is a developing story. «Lanseria» @EMER_G_MED attending to a mass casualty Taxi crash on the R114 close to Heron Bridge. In excess of 30 patients injured, many critical. @_ArriveAlive @IOL @News24 @EWNTraffic @GTP_Traffstats pic.twitter.com/pGYfEi7Qzw [UPDATE] - The ER24 Oneplan helicopter will be flying to the #R114 in #Nietgedacht. Two taxis, a truck and a bakkie have collided leaving approximately 28 people injured. @ewnupdates @eNCA @JacaNews @jour_maine @SABCNewsOnline @_ArriveAlive @FatalMoves @KayaTraffic @OpenNewsSA  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: 45 children tumble out of packed Nelson Mandela Bay taxi Nelson Mandela Bay Metro Police arrested a taxi driver who severely overloaded a minibus taxi on Monday, February 18. WATCH: Dashcam captures truck driver's close call A truck driver was left shaken after narrowly missing an oncoming lorry overtaking a tractor on the N7. Truckers 'slow roll' in Indiana protest Dozens of truck drivers took part in a "slow roll" on an Indianapolis interstate highway Thursday to protest changes in federal trucking rules. Four men jailed after killing woman with stolen lorry Four men who were in an out-of-control stolen lorry which killed a pedestrian as it ploughed into three cars and a house have been given jail sentences of between 10-and-a-half and 13 years.

The men were sentenced following the death of mother-of... What happens when you drive a car over a hand-knotted carpet? Here's a new carpet antiquing technique. Some hand-knotted carpet sellers in Turkey's Manisa lay their carpets down on the streets for 15 days and let people drive their cars over them. #Turkish #carpet #rug Video shows woman climb out of car in flood Calhoun County, Mississippi Sheriff's Department video shows a woman climb out of her car after and into a nearby Sheriff's patrol truck after she apparently got stuck in a flood. Heavy rain is flooding parts of Mississippi, Alabama and Georgia. RAW: Anthony Kopura arrives at Sydney court Anthony Kopura arrives at the Downing Centre court in Sydney. Kopura is due to be sentenced over a fatal crash in 2017. Partner speaks after SA woman sentenced over fatal crash Jane Hunt, the partner of John Eichner, speaks outside the District Court in Adelaide after Suzanne Schroeder was given a suspended sentence for hitting and killing him in a crash in Adelaide in 2016. Schroeder pleaded guilty to dangerous driving causing Eichner's death in the city's northeast. Ashok Leyland launches new trucks Ashok Leyland has launched the latest variants of the Intermediate Commercial Vehicle Guru 1010 and Medium Duty Vehicles variant of the Boss – the Boss 1616 and Boss 1916 – in Mumbai. Mourners pay tribute to footballer Sala in Argentina Mourners pay tribute to Cardiff City striker Emiliano Sala in his hometown of Progreso, Argentina, three weeks after he was killed in a plane crash. Emiliano Sala's hometown prepares for his funeral The hometown of Argentine footballer Emiliano Sala, who died in a plane crash between Nantes and Cardiff, prepares for his funeral at the San Martin de Progreso club. Footballer Sala's body arrives at Argentine funeral home The body of footballer Emiliano Sala, who died in a plane crash between Nantes and Cardiff, arrives at a funeral home in Santa Fe, Argentina. Amazon, GM may buy into electric truck startup: sources Amazon and General Motors are in talks to invest in electric truck startup Rivian in a deal that would value the company at between $1 blillion and $2 billion, sources tell Reuters. Khachanov and Goffin crash out in Rotterdam Frenchman Gael Monfils fought back from a 4-1 second-set deficit to beat Belgium's David Goffin 7-6 (7-5), 7-5 in the first round of the World Tennis Tournament in Rotterdam on Tuesday.  He will next face world number 40, the Italian Andreas Seppi... Rebooting after the crash The Boardroom is an employment agency that helps corporate types get a new job after their careers take an unpleasant turn. Managing director Claus Verfurth knows how it feels: He too was once fired. Meghan being harassed just like Diana - George Clooney The media are harassing Meghan Markle just as they did Princess Diana, who was killed in a car crash while being pursued by paparazzi, her friend George Clooney has said. UK's Prince Philip 'voluntarily surrenders' driving licence after crash “After careful consideration The Duke of Edinburgh has taken the decision to voluntarily surrender his driving licence," Buckingham Palace announced. Head on train crash near Barcelona kills one of the drivers An investigation is now underway into what caused one of the trains to be travelling on the wrong track. Truck hits car at crossing A truck hits a car while travelling at speed across a junction. Car crashes into lorry A car crashes into a lorry after overtaking other cars. Head on crash A car hits another head-on after speeding into traffic. Look at the road! A car crashes into a lorry without braking. Q3 surprise loss takes Tata Motors lower Auto major Tata Motors on Thursday reported a massive Rs 26,961 crore consolidated loss for the December quarter. The company said it took one-time exceptional non-cash charge for asset impairment of 3.1 billion pounds. Border officer shoots driver at Arizona crossing The mayor of Nogales, Arizona, says a port of entry on the U.S.-Mexico border is temporarily closed after a customs officer shot and killed a southbound driver who refused to stop. Mexican officials reportedly say a passenger was arrested. High-margin pickup trucks drive GM profit General Motors swung to a quarterly profit thanks to sales of high-margin pickup trucks and crossovers in the U.S. market, and cost-cutting. Taxi drivers in Madrid call off Uber battle but hope to win the war Taxi drivers in Madrid called off a 16-day protest against ride-hailing apps. Amy Schumer crashes couple's engagement photoshoot Amy Schumer gave a newly-engaged couple something to smile about by crashing their romantic photoshoot. Uber driver sentenced to life in 6 shooting deaths A Michigan man who fatally shot six strangers in between picking up passengers for Uber was sentenced Tuesday to life in prison with no chance of parole. 'Crash was like being hit by a truck' - Vonn In a final news conference before she retires from Alpine skiing, an emotional Lindsey Vonn said on Tuesday that above all she will most miss ''going fast" and described her dramatic crash in the women's super-G  event at the Ski World Championshi... Test it! The Kia e-Niro The Kia e-Niro has a range of up to 615 kilometers in the city on one battery charge. That's farther than many conventional cars can drive in town on a tank of gasoline or diesel. Neighbors describe fear as plane strikes house Residents of a California neighborhood were preparing to watch the Super Bowl when they heard a huge explosion. They rushed outside to see that a plane had crashed into a home, setting it on fire. The crash killed five people. Images of Peru aircraft after crash landing in Lima street A small Peruvian Air Force plane crashes onto a street in Lima, resulting in an injured pilot but no deaths. Probe underway after deadly California plane crash Officials are trying to establish why a small plane crashed into a home in Yorba Linda, California Sunday, killing the pilot and four people inside the home. AP Top Stories February 4 Here's the latest for Monday February 4th: Virginia Governor Northam under pressure to resign; Pope in UAE; Southern California plane crash kills 5; Patriots win Super Bowl. Footage shows aftermath of California plane crash Five people have been killed after the small aircraft crashed into a house. Thousands protest in Madrid demanding higher pension increase Senior citizens and others say the 6% rise offered by the government is not enough Court has ‘difficult job’ in Sidhu sentencing: Crown A Crown prosecutor in the case of the truck driver who caused the Humboldt Broncos bus crash says arriving at a sentence will be a tough task. Thomas Healey says there is a lack of precedent for cases like Jaskirat Singh Sidhu’s. A bridge too far for Gambian businesses? A new bridge across the river Gambia will massively cut journey times from north to south Senegal. But the Gambian workers inbetween say they will suffer. Court has a ‘difficult job’ in Sidhu sentencing: Crown CAPTION:SOUNDBITE: Thomas Healey, Crown prosecutorPLACELINE: Melfort, Sask.CREDIT: The Canadian PressSTORYLINE: The truck driver who caused the deadly Humboldt Broncos bus crash says he takes full responsibility for the collision that killed 16 pe... US makes largest fentanyl seizure at Mexican border U.S. Customs and Border Protection officials say they have made their biggest fentanyl bust ever, capturing nearly 254 pounds of the deadly synthetic opioid found in a hidden compartment of a truck carrying produce. Families of Humboldt victims seek solace at crash memorial Several families visited the site of last year’s Humboldt Broncos bus crash. The father of a survivor said Wednesday that the sentencing hearing for truck driver Jaskirat Singh Sidhu is putting “tremendous pressure” on the families. Bus crash victim’s father’s ‘biggest hope is to change attitudes’ The father of a Humboldt Broncos bus crash victim says he hopes to see trucking companies held accountable for accidents. Truck driver Jaskirat Singh Sidhu is being sentenced for causing a collision in April that killed 16 people. VW holds onto top spot among carmakers, just Include trucks, and VW has held onto the top spot among global automakers for a fifth year, but Renault-Nissan is snapping at its heels. Julian Satterthwaite reports Gwyneth Paltrow sued by alleged ski crash victim Gwyneth Paltrow is being sued by a man who alleges she crashed into him whilst skiing in Utah three years ago. ShowBiz Minute: Smollett, Paltrow, Maroon 5 "Empire" cast member Jessie Smollett alleges homophobic and racial attack in Chicago; Lawsuit accuses Gwyneth Paltrow of breaking a man's ribs and leaving him with a concussion in Utah ski crash; Maroon 5 cancels news conference to discuss Super B... Taxi drivers strike to demand halt Uber and ride-sharing services Angry Spanish taxi-drivers have been protesting against Uber and other car-apps for eight consecutive days. According to the taxi-drivers, the companies do not face the same regulations and taxes. During the protests, clashes with police occurred ... WATCH: Armed thieves attack cash-in-transit guards in Krugersdorp A money truck was attacked by armed thieves after guards were collecting money from a filling station in Kagiso on Monday. Creating Jobs with Self-Driving Trucks: Embark's Alex Rodrigues Embark's Alex Rodrigues sits down with Darrell Etherington to discuss the ways their autonomous trucking model addresses the current problems of the industry. Weak Q3 for CEAT due to feeble demand Company sees potential for growth in truck space with new plant in Halol. Embark has a vision for making the truck industry autonomous Embark has a vision for making the truck industry autonomous   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.