Russel Molefe, Correspondent ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa at the rollout of the ANC manifesto in Limpopo. (Image via ANC Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Thousands of people packed the Thohoyandou Stadium in Vhembe region, Limpopo, on Saturday to listen to ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa as he led the party’s 107th birthday and launch the manifesto in the province. In an address that lasted almost an hour, Ramaphosa spoke of the thorny issue of the VBS scandal in which hundreds of people lost money when the bank collapsed after being looted of billions of rands. "In the Vhembe region, there is a huge problem of the bank named VBS in which money belonging to the elderly people was stolen. This matter of VBS is being investigated. "We’ve agreed with the premier (Stan Mathabatha) after he reported that the implementation of the forensic report has reached another stage. The recommendations of the forensic report are being implemented. "What is happening now is that evidence is being gathered for arrests and successful arrests," Ramaphosa said to loud applause. PROVINCIAL ROLL OUT OF THE PROPLE’S MANIFESTO[PICTURES] Thohiyandou Stadium today 16 February,#ANCLimpopo#PeoplesManifesto #Limpopo #GrowSouthAfrica pic.twitter.com/dnYTUDIWM0 Mathabatha said the implementation of the forensic report into the VBS scandal has reached what he described as the "court readiness stage". "We want to do our things in a very systematic manner. We don’t want anything to escape through our fingers or to be judged that we failed on procedural matter when it comes to this matter because we will fail the ordinary masses on the ground," Mathabatha said. "Be rest assured that everything we do in this matter will be objective and scientific. We will follow every discrepancy and every grievance and every misconduct to the latter until we find the root of this problem,” he said. PROVINCIAL ROLL OUT OF THE PEOPLE’S MANIFESTO Thohoyandou Stadium today, 16 February 2019 #PeoplesManifesto #GrowSouthAfrica pic.twitter.com/5CUGbCX7nF PROVINCIAL ROLL OUT OF THE PEOPLE’S MANIFESTO Situation at Thohoyandu Stadium ahead of the address by ANC President Cde Cyril Ramaphosa #PeoplesManifesto #GrowSouthAfrica pic.twitter.com/ip5orbeZ1T Ramaphosa also visited the families of the two leaders of the SA Municipal Workers Union (Samwu) in Vhembe who were gunned down at their homes. The incidents are believed to have been connected with the VBS scandal. At the event at the stadium, Ramaphosa also spoke at length on various issues, including the botched R3bn Giyani Water Project. He said 89 villages were currently without drinking water because of the collapse of the project. He also earlier met with traditional and church leaders in an attempt to garner their support ahead of the general elections on 8 May. The traditional leaders, however, complained that their concerns remain unresolved and leaders of the governing party only engage them during the election period. PHAKAMA RAMAPHOSA !! Thank you people of Thohoyandou for welcoming your President pic.twitter.com/5BHEtgycHm KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: VBS lead investigator Terry Motau live on News24 The South African Reserve Bank (SARB) dropped an explosive report into looting at VBS Mutual Bank this week.

The report, by advocate Terry Motau, details the transactions that led to a collapse of the financial institution. WATCH: 'VBS looters, pay back the money' - DA, EFF in war of words President Cyril Ramaphosa's last oral reply for the year came to an abrupt halt when the DA and EFF exchanged insults in Parliament. Watch. WATCH: Ramaphosa calls on private sector to assist with the fight against corruption Corruption has become a big issue that has to be addressed by the whole nation, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Thursday. WATCH: 'Pay back the money' - MP's jeer at EFF's Floyd Shivambu in ironic turn of events EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu found himself on the receiving end of MP's jeering in Parliament on Tuesday, when he was heckled to "pay back the money" during a debate on the VBS Mutual Bank scandal. WATCH: EFF expected to address VBS claims The Economic Freedom Fighters will on Tuesday address the media on the VBS Mutual Bank report released by the South African Reserve Bank last, titled The Great Bank Heist.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.