Sarah Evans Lotto ticket (Getty Images/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Friday's record-high R180m PowerBall jackpot has rolled over and now stands at a whopping R190m. Ithuba Lottery spokesperson Busisiwe Koloi said this is the highest amount up for grabs in the South African lottery's history. The PowerBall Plus lottery also rolled over and currently stands at R1m. All eyes will now be on Tuesday's PowerBall draw, she said, when the lucky ticket could be played. Meanwhile, the R28m jackpot previously reported to be unclaimed, has been claimed. The winner was given until February 13 to claim the winnings, or risk losing it. The ticket was reportedly purchased at a Shoprite Checkers store in Cape Town's Sanlam Centre. In August last year, a couple won the R145m PowerBall jackpot, TimesLive reported. The winning numbers from Friday's PowerBall and PowerBall Plus draw are: Powerball: 22, 30, 39, 41, 42 PowerBall: 11 PowerBall Plus: 04, 06, 21, 24, 47 Powerball: 08 *A previous version of this article stated that the R28m jackpot had not been claimed. Ithuba Lottery has since pointed out that the jackpot was claimed. The article has been updated to reflect this.  NY man revealed as $343M Powerball jackpot winner Robert Bailey was introduced Wednesday by New York lottery officials as the winner of last months record-breaking Powerball jackpot. Bailey shares his winnings of nearly $700 million, with a woman in Iowa who also picked the winning combo. Winning ticket sold in $1.6 bln U.S. lottery One ticket sold in South Carolina matched all six numbers in the Mega Millions lottery draw for a record-setting $1.6 billion jackpot, the state's lottery says. Mammoth lottery jackpots top $1.3 billion The Mega Millions and Powerball jackpots combined now top $1.3 billion. Linda So has more. Lottery hopefuls dream big ahead of $1.6B draw Lottery fever is spreading in the United States this week with a Mega Millions jackpot of $1.6 billion and a $620 million Powerball up for grabs. 'Lottery win? I carried on cleaning' A group of six hospital caterers win more than GBP25m on the National Lottery's EuroMillions. EuroMillions winner kept GBP76m ticket in van for six weeks A builder who stockpiled lottery tickets in his van discovered he had won GBP76 million on EuroMillions only after checking the winning slip six weeks after the draw. Lottery winner's dog knocks him over during celebratory photocall A couple say they have their dog's picky eating habits to thank for helping them win GBP1 million on a National Lottery scratchcard.

Patrick Morling had made a special trip to the supermarket to buy their pet's favourite meal when he decided on a... Lottery-winning couple Moet their lawn in celebration A lottery-winning couple decided to Moet their lawn to celebrate, trimming a giant champagne bottle into the grass.

Sue Richards, 51, and 58-year-old Barry Maddox moved into their dream home in Billericay, Essex, after Ms Richards won GBP3 mill...   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.