Sesona Ngqakamba A still from a video of the stabbing incident that was distributed on social media. (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The police are monitoring the streets of Johannesburg following several violent street robberies. In one incident, four men stabbed a school boy on the corner of Bok and Twist streets on Thursday morning. The suspects are seen in a graphic video, which has since gone viral, stabbing the boy multiple times while they rob him. They then walk away while bystanders watch and just walk by. Hillbrow police spokesperson Sergeant Mduduzi Zondo told News24 that officers had responded to the scene and had been informed that the victim had stood up and left following the incident. "Eyewitnesses told the cops that the victim woke up and went in the direction of MTN taxi rank," Zondo said. WATCH: Viral footage of brazen robbery in Johannesburg shows 2 security officers killed Zondo said they were urging the victim to report the incident, as they viewed it as serious. He said the police had been informed of cases of violent robberies in the area. He said the incidents were said to occur in the mornings and afternoons. "We are aware of that area as a hot spot and we will continue to deploy our members during peak hours, like early in the morning and afternoon, in the area," he said. In other videos that have been widely shared on social media, what looks like the same group is seen attacking various people around the area. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Thieves ambush and rob sleeping truck driver A video of a truck driver valiantly fighting off a suspected robber who broke into his truck while he was sleeping inside has surfaced on social media. WATCH: Bogus police rob Nelspruit jewellery store Police are searching for a group of men who robbed a jewellery store at I'langa Mall in Nelspruit on Monday. WATCH: Security guard shot dead trying to help a man being robbed in Rosebank A security guard was shot dead in Rosebank on Friday afternoon. 

This is after he saw four suspects attempting to rob a man who was walking on the side of the road, police spokesperson Lungelo Dlamini told News24. WATCH: Driver catches car thief in the act A motorist managed to stop car thieves seconds before they drove off with his vehicle from a parking lot at a Springs shopping centre. WATCH: Thieves steal Diesel watches from Pretoria shop A Pretoria business has appealed to twitter following the brazen theft of four Diesel watches worth R 4000 each out of a locked display. WATCH: 'That children are being trained to do this is horrible' - Spur handbag theft victim A "family" of thieves seemingly worked together to steal an unsuspecting woman's handbag from a restaurant over the weekend. Watch. WATCH: Durban thieves give up after relentless pursuit by security officers Two suspected thieves were arrested by Marshall Security after they tried to steal a vehicle from Musgrave Road in Berea, Durban.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.