Jenna Etheridge WATCH: Hundreds gather for emotional night vigil at Hoërskool Driehoek Hundreds of people gathered at Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark for an emotional night vigil, after a concrete slab collapsed at the school, killing three children and seriously injuring 25 others. (Canny Maphanga, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Pupils of Hoërskool Driehoek are expected to return on Monday as parts of the school building have been declared safe. With the tragedy at the school still very fresh in everyone's minds, their schooling would resume slowly with reintegration efforts and counselling, the Gauteng Education department stated. Tents had been erected to temporarily accommodate pupils. Earlier this month a concrete slab above a corridor linking two blocks of buildings came crashing down on 26 learners at the Vanderbijlpark-based school. WATCH: Grandmother of injured Hoërskool Driehoek describes shock of walkway collapse A grandmother , whose child attends Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark, was injured in an accident on Friday, Roydon Olckers, Jandré Steyn and Marli Currie died on the scene. A fourth pupil, Marnus Nagel, later succumbed to his injuries in hospital. The four were buried last week. READ: Tears and hugs at Hoërskool Driehoek pupil's funeral Education spokesperson Steve Mabona confirmed that a memorial for the four would be held at the Kompas Gemeente church in Vanderbijlpark at 15:00. Pupils, parents and supporters have left t-shirts, flags, pictures and wreaths at the school fence in remembrance of those lost. The education department had appointed a team of structural engineers to conduct an analysis of the premises before allowing pupils back.  WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. WATCH: Holy Cross primary in Cape Town on fire Firefighters were called out to Holy Cross RC Primary School in the Cape Town CBD after plumes of smoke were seen emanating from the premises. WATCH: SA Human Rights Commission reacts to the Hoërskool Driehoek tragedy SA Human Rights Commission will launch a problem to the four children that died at a high school in Vanderbijlpark after a walkway collapsed on Friday morning WATCH: Khayelitsha school bids to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place Chairperson of Enkanini Primary's School Governing Body Andile Lili shows what the school is doing in a bid to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place at the school in Khayelitsha WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.