Ntwaagae Seleka Parents of slain North West teacher Gadimang Mokolobate hold his picture. Mokolobate was allegedly killed by a learner at a high school in Lehurutshe. (Ntwaagae Seleka, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Lehurutshe Regional Court has sentenced a 17-year-old pupil to 10 years in prison for the murder of his teacher last year. Magistrate Winnie Malane said Gadimang Mokolobate was killed in cold blood. "He was vulnerable and defenceless when he met his untimely death. In my opinion, his death was planned. He didn't provoke the pupil to kill him. "He was attacked while invigilating an examination. He didn't see it coming," said Malan Tension Earlier on Thursday, proceedings were adjourned when tension reached fever pitch after members of the public and the media were ordered to vacate the courtroom. The announcement came after the teenager, who can't legally be named, was briefly led in for his sentencing. He pleaded guilty earlier this year to killing Mokolobate. The court adjourned after Mokolobate's parents and relatives told court officials and the police that under no circumstances would anyone leave. "Gadimang died in vain. Why are people told to go outside? Everybody here wants to see what will happen to this boy," shouted Mokolobate's brother-in-law, Thabang Rammutle. READ: Tensions erupt in North West courtroom during sentencing of pupil who killed his teacher Proceedings resumed after policing was beefed up. Mokolobate died after he was stabbed on September 13, 2018, at Ramotshere Moiloa High School, in Dinokana Village, Lehurutshe, outside Zeerust. The incident happened after Mokolobate reprimanded the pupil, who refused to stand in a queue. The pupil then ran home, fetched a knife and returned to the school where he stabbed Mokolobate. The teacher was rushed to a local clinic where he was certified dead on arrival. Breadwinner Mokolobate began his career at the school in May 2018, after he graduated two months earlier with a Bachelor of Science in Electronics at the University of North West. He is survived by his sisters Lerato, 29, Onicca, 25, Reaobaka, 19 and his brother, Tshegofatso, 18. His family described him as a breadwinner. He was on the verge of completing a seven-roomed house he was building for his parents when he was killed. Passionate "He loved teaching and it had always been his dream to teach. I feel like I have lost everything in life. My life is empty. Gadimang was everything to us. We were expecting a lot from him. He had bold dreams. "Gadimang was a very strict, reliable and honest person who had a timeline in everything he had planned to do. He was busy with his honours qualification when he was killed. His greatest plan was to become a professor," she said. READ: Teacher's family speaks out about his death, as teenager appears in court "My brother loved education and teaching other pupils in the village. I remember how high school pupils would flock to our home seeking his teachings. He spent his spare time teaching. He was a specialist in Mathematics and Physical Science. "He passed his degree with distinctions – the dream that he wanted to achieve. Maths and Science were flowing in his blood. He was the jewel of his university and the institution was very proud of him." WATCH: Motorist robbed, beaten in Randburg traffic Video of a motorist being robbed in peak time traffic in Randburg has gone viral. WATCH: Rohde 'used wife's body as a show house' to sell his story – Judge Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe referenced Jason Rohde's history as the former CEO of Lew Geffen Sotheby's International Realty by comparing the staging of his wife's suicide to the staging of a house by estate agents. WATCH: Support for Sans Souci teacher following court appearance The teacher charged with the assault of a Sans Souci Girls High School pupil, as well as the teenager she slapped, made their first appearances in the Wynberg Magistrate's Court on Wednesday. WATCH: 'Maybe it is real' – CRL Rights Commission on Pastor Lukau The CRL Rights Commission on Tuesday said it will be investigating the allegations that a dead man was resurrected at the Alleluia International Ministries church. WATCH: #Resurrection challenge - South Africans mock 'resurrection miracle' pastor South Africans mock 'resurrection' pastor. WATCH- Durban metro police officer among 3 dead in CBD shooting A metro police officer is among three people who were killed in a shooting near the KwaZulu-Natal High Court in Durban on Monday morning. WATCH: Woman kidnapped in Bergbron and robbed in her BMW A woman escaped unscathed after she was taken in her car and robbed on Saturday night in the Randburg suburb of Bergbron. WATCH: Couple caught on camera allegedly using child to rob crèches Concerns have been raised about a couple allegedly using their children to rob crèches and nursery schools in the Johannesburg area. WATCH: SS Mendi memorial site does not depict enormity of the tragedy -  Cyril Ramaphosa The South African National Defence Force celebrated Armed Forces Day 2019 on Thursday in Cape Town
The SANDF also honoured the bravery of sons and daughters of our country who lost their lives in the fateful 1917 sinking of the SS Mendi.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.