Kaveel Singh and Jenna Etheridge WATCH- Durban metro police officer among 3 dead in CBD shooting A metro police officer is among three people who were killed in a shooting near the KwaZulu-Natal High Court in Durban on Monday morning. A metro police officer is among three people who were killed in a shooting near the KwaZulu-Natal High Court in Durban on Monday morning. "Investigators are still busy, but we can confirm that a metro officer is among those that died," provincial police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele told journalists at the scene on Monday. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele confirms that a Durban Metro police office is among the dead in the #DurbanCBDShooting @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/Vfng4Wl5Iq  She added that all three people were killed in the officer's flat. Five others were injured and one person escaped uninjured. Metro police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said the officer was a 39-year-old constable who was off duty at the time. Investigators were seen taking a Glock 17 firearm - a standard issue firearm for metro police officers - away from the scene. It appeared to be in an evidence bag. Rescue Care spokesperson Garrith Jamieson earlier confirmed the shooting happened in an apartment block in Baker [JN Singh] Street around 11:00.  The scene where three people have been killed in a shooting in the Durban CBD. @TeamNews24 #DurbanCBDshooting pic.twitter.com/8DtIXLpsOr Police walk out with a firearm in an evidence bag. #DurbanCBDShooting (@kaveels) pic.twitter.com/5goJsR3pao  "On arrival, paramedics were escorted to the apartment and were faced with an absolute bloodbath. Nine people had been shot and sustained multiple gunshot wounds," he said. Two men and a woman were declared dead on the scene. Other injuries ranged from moderate to critical. It is not yet clear what led to the shooting. By the afternoon, a mortuary vehicle had been brought in to remove the deceased. A mortuary van has just turned up on scene of the #DurbanCBDShooting @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/yeYJH35GgJ  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.