Canny Maphanga WATCH: Hundreds gather for emotional night vigil at Hoërskool Driehoek Hundreds of people gathered at Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark for an emotional night vigil, after a concrete slab collapsed at the school, killing three children and seriously injuring 25 others. Matric learners will return to school on Wednesday. (Canny Maphanga, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Gauteng Department of Education has confirmed that matric pupils will be allowed to return to Hoërskool Driehoek and resume their 2019 academic programme on Wednesday. "Grade 12 classes will resume on Wednesday, Grade 11s will then return on Thursday and other grades will be accommodated from Monday with temporary structures," department spokesperson Steve Mabona said outside the school on Monday. This comes after a walkway connecting two blocks of the school building collapsed on Friday, killing three learners and leaving 20 others in hospital with severe injuries. A fourth learner died in hospital over the weekend. READ: Individuals, businesses open wallets for Hoërskool Driehoek victims and families WATCH: Grandmother of injured Hoërskool Driehoek describes shock of walkway collapse A grandmother , whose child attends Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark, was injured in an accident on Friday, The school had their own appointed engineers look at the building on Sunday. The team of engineers declared the administration block, as well as six classrooms on the ground level, as safe to occupy, Mabona told News24. The Department of Labour had since approved this assessment. "The Department of Labour gave the approval to utilise the admin block, hall, gymnasium and a block of classes on the lower level," Mabona said. Learners and parents were still making their way into the school for trauma counselling. "The focal point right now is counselling, we encourage parents to please bring their children for trauma counselling," he said. ALSO READ:  Most victims of Höerskool Driehoek tragedy remain in hospital, some still critical Twenty pupils remain in hospital due to the serious nature of their injuries. "If you look at the pupil who passed away on Saturday, he had been in theatre more than four times before he passed away. "We are hopeful, but we don't know what could happen," Mabona concluded. WATCH: SA Human Rights Commission reacts to the Hoërskool Driehoek tragedy SA Human Rights Commission will launch a problem to the four children that died at a high school in Vanderbijlpark after a walkway collapsed on Friday morning WATCH: Emergency personnel working to free people trapped under collided trains At least three people have been confirmed dead, while scores of others have been left injured following a train collision at Mountain View station, Pretoria on
Tuesday morning. WATCH: Limpopo accident leaves 26 dead, among them 2 children Two children are among the 26 people who died in a horror multi-vehicle collision on the N1 in Mookgopong outside Modimolle, Limpopo, on Friday.

Four people survived the crash and were taken to various hospitals for medical treatment. WATCH: Four bus crashes in one day leave 150 injured, two dead in KZN Helicopter footage of a bus that crashed into a home in Tongaat, KwaZulu-Natal has emerged online.

According to the KZN emergency medical services, over 150 people suffered serious to moderate injuries in three other incidents in the province.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.