Ntwaagae Seleka Manuel Chang, former finance minister of Mozambique, appears at the Kempton Park Magistrates court to fight extradition to the United states on January 8 2019 in Kempton Park, South Africa. (Photo credit should read WIKUS DE WET/AFP/Getty Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former Mozambican Finance Minister Manuel Chang could be extradited to the US or Mozambique in connection with financial crimes. Chang is expected to hear his fate in the Kempton Park Magistrate's Court on Tuesday. According to a report, Chang was arrested in South Africa on December 29 on a warrant from the US, where he is wanted on allegations of conspiracy to commit fraud and taking millions of dollars in bribes in a $2bn loan scandal. South African prosecutors formally filed the US extradition request in a Johannesburg court on February 5, the report stated. READ: Former Mozambique finance minister Manuel Chang's bail denied  The Department of International Relations and Cooperation also later confirmed receiving an extradition request from Mozambique. Earlier this month, Chang was denied bail in the Kempton Park Magistrate's Court. He argued that his detention was unlawful and that his extradition, if carried out, would also be illegal. But Magistrate Sagra Subroyen said releasing him would undermine SA's criminal justice system. The magistrate also said there were some months where there was no movement in Chang's bank accounts and questioned "how he went about his living". Subroyen said Chang failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that he was a suitable candidate for bail. "The applicant is a person of influence and may very well have his way in returning to his home country, despite his travel documents being handed into relevant officials," said Subroyen. The Kempton Park Magistrate's Court is expected to decide on Tuesday whether he will be extradited. Keepie-uppie queen dazzles crowds around Africa Tanzanian ball juggler Hadhara Charles Mjeje has turned into a viral sensation thanks to her impressive football skills. Hadhara, 29, revealed that she started juggling to earn money for her two sons. She has since dazzled crowds in several countr... Road-tripping Mozambique: From camping with wild elephants to watching the sun set over dhows The land of fresh seafood, sweet local rum, really wild animals and friendly people - Mozambique offers a quick escape to recharge your batteries while adventuring through gorgeous landscapes - Maputo Special Reserve; Santa Maria and Inhaca Island. Cruising from Durban to Pomene - and the craziness in-between Onboard the MSC Musica, taking a trip from port city Durban in South Africa to Mozambique's tropical Pomene can be quite a madhouse holiday. Quick Guide to Mozambique Mozambique, much more than golden and white sandy beaches, prawns and peri-peri chicken, this unique African destination offers travellers a wealth of memorable experiences. (Photos: iStock) WATCH: Mozambique spitting cobra keeps Durban neighbourhood on its toes A 1.4 meter Mozambique Spitting Cobra was captured outside a house in Verulam, Durban yesterday. Why are suspected Islamist militants attacking Mozambique? They have carried out attacks in northern Mozambique since October Zimbabwe: Help for Africa's wild dogs Wild dogs are among the most endangered carnivores in Africa, with only several thousand left. The Save Valley Conservancy in southeastern Zimbabwe is one of the last places they can roam freely. Syrah declares commercial production at Balama 14 Jan 2019 - Syrah Resources (ASX:SYR) has declared commercial production at its Balama graphite mine in Mozambique. Lithium Consolidated (ASX:LI3) hard rock lithium focus 05 Dec 2018 - Lithium Consolidated Limited (ASX:LI3) CEO, Shanthar Pathmanathan talks about the company's focus on hard rock lithium in Zimbabwe and Mozambique and plans to start small scale mining in 2019. Mozambican refugees prepare to head home after three years Thousands of Mozambican refugees who fled to Malawi in a bid to escape conflict in their homeland head home after an easing of tensions between government and its opposition. Scientists search for new solutions to combat crop-eating worm Scientists in Britain are hoping to find a sustainable way to stop the march of the voracious fall armyworm caterpillar that has infested Africa. Maputo Special Reserve: Where Elephants Learn To Trust Humans Again After years of poaching during the war, the elephants of Maputo Special Reserve in Mozambique are very wary of humans, but hopefully positive interactions with peaceful tourists will change all that. 'Hunt my animals and I'll catch you' Zimbabwe's armed female anti-poaching unit protect one of the biggest elephant populations in Africa. Ghost airport lies empty and unused Nacalas International Airport in Mozambique operates at only 4% of its capacity. Is this Africa's tallest tree? A German scientist says a tree he discovered in Tanzania is Africa's tallest.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.