Correspondent (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Gauteng Department of Health says it will pay medical interns on Monday – the last batch to be paid after the department failed to pay interns on time. Department spokesperson Khutso Rabothata told News24 on Friday that 803 medical interns received their salaries on Wednesday and the remaining 409 interns would be paid after the weekend. EWN reported last week that several Gauteng medical interns and community service doctors had contacted them, claiming that they had not received their salaries on January 28, as expected. EWN reported that it had seen WhatsApp messages, emails and memos communicating the delay to doctors completing their community service year at various hospitals in the province. News24 previously reported that Gauteng Health MEC Gwen Ramokgopa intervened after the medical interns weren't paid. After the intervention, 1 337 community service doctors were paid. DA spokesperson of the executive council for health in Gauteng, Jack Bloom, said he was "appalled" at the delay. The DA cited a notice which stated that January salaries would not be paid at month end "due to the late creation of posts at central office".  WATCH: News24 analysis of Ramaphosa's 'feel-good' SONA News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and News24 Head of Video Jerusha Sukhdeo-Raath discuss the tone and substance of President Cyril Ramaphosa's second State of the Nation Address. WATCH: What would the Ramaphosa-Malema-Maimane band be called? If President Cyril Ramaphosa formed a band with EFF leader Julius Malema and DA leader Mmusi Maimane, what should it be called? WATCH: Mixed reaction to Ramaphosa's SONA speech While some political figures lauded President Cyril Ramaphosa's second State of the Nation speech, others dismissed it as 'lip service' and 'a campaigning speech'. Watch. WATCH: Ramaphosa's reincarnated Scorpions a 'seminal moment' in SONA 2019 News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson calls President Cyril Ramaphosa's announcement that he will bring back a Scorpions-like unit to help root out corruption a 'major announcement' during post-SONA analysis. WATCH: EFF MP slaps security official at Parliament The Economic Freedom Fighters were caught in yet another scuffle at Parliament on Thursday, when one of their MPs assaulted a security official. WATCH: Mountain blaze breaks out in Camps Bay Firefighters responded to a blaze that erupted in The Glen area of Camps Bay on Thursday afternoon. Watch.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.