Riaan Grobler WATCH: Domestic worker hit by car, driver speeds off A video of a woman being hit by a car while crossing the road in Benoni, reportedly on Monday morning, has been going viral on social media.
In the video, the woman is seen crossing the road outside the John Barrable Hall in Northmead, Benoni. A screenshot of the woman being hit by a car in Benoni.  (Screenshot) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A video of a woman being hit by a car while crossing the road in Benoni on Monday morning has gone viral on social media. In the video, the woman is seen crossing the road outside the John Barrable Hall in Northmead, Benoni. The woman attempts to walk faster when a dark-coloured hatchback appears to first slow down before hitting her. As the pedestrian crouches in pain in front of the car, the driver reverses, pauses for a few seconds, and then simply drives away, leaving the injured woman lying in the road. Viral footage The footage, which was shared on several Facebook groups on Monday morning, was caught on a CCTV camera of the Benoni Northerns Sports Club. According to club manager Rod Scheepers, the incident was recorded by a camera monitoring the delivery bay of the club. The viral video was taken by Scheepers, who filmed the CCTV footage to send to Benoni Sector 2 CPF representative Jerome Stapelberg for further investigation. "Our security guard heard the incident taking place and informed me. I arrived on the scene within seven or eight minutes, but by then [the woman] had already got up and walked off," Scheepers told News24. No confirmation The woman's whereabouts or the extent of her injuries could not be established, Scheepers said. He suspected she was a domestic worker who was employed in the area. Ekurhuleni police spokesperson Chief Superintendent Wilfred Kgasago could not confirm the incident. ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring had no knowledge of emergency services being dispatched to the incident, but said he would investigate. According to Scheepers, the CCTV footage is too grainy to see the vehicle's number plate. Stapelberg could not be reached for comment.  BUDGET SPEECH 2019: Some praise, some concerns and no holy cows... There was praise, criticism and questions post Budget 2019. Watch politicians, economists and CEOs react to Finance Minister Tito Mboweni's maiden address. WATCH: Gavin Watson belittles Bosasa staff, talks of his tender 'networks' Gavin Watson,, CEO of Bosasa, tackles staff over mistakes in their work submitting tenders. He mentions one contract worth R800-million which was nearly lost due to such a mistake. The video was taken during a Bosasa 'Imbizo', at Silverstar Casino. WATCH: Robbers make off with woman's phone, bag as she walks in Muizenberg SAPS confirmed that a case of robbery was reported at Muizenberg police station on Tuesday 19 February 2019. The incident allegedly occurred on 9 February at approximately 07:40. WATCH: Dashcam captures truck driver's close call A truck driver was left shaken after narrowly missing an oncoming lorry overtaking a tractor on the N7. WATCH: Firefighters battle blaze in Franschhoek mountains Firefigthers have been battling a large blaze in the Franschhoek mountains since Monday, when it broke out in the Mooiwater area. WATCH: Vicki Momberg shown support after leave to appeal application is postponed Former estate agent Vicki Momberg, who was convicted in connection with a racist rant, was back in the dock in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Wednesday - this time to apply for leave to appeal her effective two-year jail sentence.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.