Canny Maphanga Speed. (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Gauteng traffic police arrested a 30-year-old man on Wednesday for driving at 222km/h on the N1 toward Bloemfontein. "The man was caught travelling in a silver Mercedes Benz GLE AMG and told officers he was rushing to Bloemfontein," the Gauteng department of community safety said in a statement on Wednesday. He was arrested on the spot and taken to Vanderbijlpark police station. The driver is expected to appear in the Vanderbijlpark Magistrate's Court on Thursday on charges of reckless and negligent driving as well as an alternative charge of exceeding the general speed limit. READ: 2 speedsters driving BMW, Chevrolet arrested clocking 200km/h on the N1 MEC of community safety Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane has called on law enforcement agencies to deal "decisively" with motorists who disobey the rules of the road. "As Gauteng city region, we will intensify the patrol of freeways, streets and public places in clearly marked vehicles as an available means for the prevention of road traffic violations. In December, two men were arrested for speeding in separate incidents on the N1 in Limpopo. A 42-year-old man was caught driving his BMW X5 at 208km/h, while a 48-year-old man was caught driving a Chevrolet Lumina SS at 214km/h. Transport Minister Blade Nzimande announced in December that road deaths had increased by 16% to 767 between December 1 and 18, 2018, compared to the same period the previous year. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Woman robbed at gunpoint outside Midrand shopping centre Police are investigating a case of armed robbery after a woman was robbed at gunpoint in the parking lot of the Crowthorne shopping centre last week Wednesday. Sleek but practical: the Audi Q8 With the new Q8, Audi is looking to compete with BMW and Mercedes in the increasingly popular SUV coupe sector. It melds the elegance of a four-door coupe with the versatility of a large SUV. Car demand collapse outruns GM's moves General Motors' monumental announcement that it will close three car assembly plants in North America and slash its workforce will only partially close the gap between capacity and demand for the automaker's sedans. GM to cut car production in North America General Motors will significantly cut car production in North America and stop building some low-selling car models, sources tell Reuters. And as Fred Katayama reports, it is expected to announce significant planned reductions to its North American s All revved up: Chinese drivers racing for global success There's been a spike in popularity for race car driving in China, and drivers of all ages are eyeing a chance at getting behind the wheel of formula level cars. Powerful and practical - Porsche Macan S It's designed to look elegant, drive fast but also be practical for everyday use. The Porsche Macan S has proved hugely successful and has now undergone a facelift. Former racing driver Klaus Niedzwiedz put the new Macan S through its paces. Three Japanese automakers cheated on emissions tests: government Japan says that Mazda, Suzuki Motor, and Yamaha Motor conducted improper fuel economy and emissions tests on their vehicles. It's the latest episode in a growing list of data falsifications that has tarnished the image of Japan's auto industry. Roomy: The Seat Tarraco Seat made its name with sporty, economically priced cars from the mid-range down. Now the Spanish carmaker is expanding its SUV range upwards. The Tarraco is the first Wolfsburg-built Seat, and it's also the biggest to date. Moving house will make backpackers dreams a reality Welcome to the 'Truck Surf Hote', the luxury hotel where you wake up with different views everyday. Great Wall Motor posts record sales drop as China car market stalls Chinese carmaker Great Wall Motor Co reported a record quarterly sales drop and tumbling profit, amid a sharp slowdown in the world's largest auto market that has spooked automakers and dealers alike. Ford goes local to win a bigger slice of India Ford made a profit in India for the first time in a decade in the last fiscal year, a sign that its strategy to move closer to its local partners there is paying off. Audi goes after the Mode-X with the e-tron Audi has gone electric. Meet the e-tron, its first fully electric production vehicle. Volvo cars drop IPO due to trade tensions China will respond if the United States takes any new steps on trade, the foreign ministry has warned, after President Donald Trump warned he was ready to slap tariffs on virtually all Chinese imports into the United States.  As Sonia Legg reports... Car scrappage schemes: The deals still running Car manufacturers launched a series of scrappage schemes to take old diesels off the road and replace them with newer, cleaner models. Here are details of the schemes still offering buyers money off in exchange for their old cars. Mercedes's New Concept Car Goes Back To The Future Mercedes-Benz has unveiled it's latest concept vehicle and it looks like something straight out of a Back to the Future movie. Driverless Jaguar goes into production You could soon be picked up by a driverless Jaguar I-Pace at the touch of a button, as the British car manufacturer is teaming up with American firm Waymo to build up to 20,000 autonomous units of the electric SUV. This Pilot's Passion to Save Birds Will Give You Goosebumps One man and his ultralight plane are teaching orphaned birds how to migrate while giving people a front row seat of nature in action. Trade war dents Daimler, but Toyota motors on U.S.-China trade wars are playing out very differently for big carmakers, with Daimler blaming the turmoil for a drop earnings, while Toyota says it actually saw sales rise in China. Merc V-class launched at Rs 68.4Lk Mercedes Benz V increased focus on tier 2 and tier 3 cities. Toyota, sensing an opening, debates building Lexus cars in China Company insiders tell Reuters that Toyota is now considering making its premium Lexus cars in China. Lexus is considered a second-tier car on the mainland, lagging German rivals like BMW. But as Eve Johnson reports, Toyota may now have a chance to... Arnold Schwarzenegger makes surprise appearance at Detroit Auto Show Arnold Schwarzenegger makes a surprise appearance at the launch of the new Mercedes in Detroit, joining chairman Dieter Zetsche for the unveiling of the new G-class SUV. We drive the updated Mercedes-Benz C-Class 'The 1.6-litre turbo engine is frighteningly frugal, I managed over 800kms on a tank,'  writes Sean Parker as he tests the updated Mercedes-Benz C-Class. Mercedes opens the German assault on Tesla The Mercedes EQC is not the company's first electric vehicle. But it represents a change in strategy and economies of scale that may present a major threat to Tesla's domination. Daimler hit by Germany slump Daimler's third-quarter earnings before interest and tax fell 27 percent year on year thanks to a regulatory crackdown on diesel cars and a 13 percent sales slowdown for Mercedes-Benz in Germany. As Sonia Legg reports, morale among other German compa Frankfurt Motor Show: Luxury cars unveiled in Germany Ferrari, Porsche and Bugatti were just some of the big-name brands unveiling their latest luxury sports cars at the Frankfurt Motor Show. We take a look at the best of the best. BMW to spend $4 bln for control of China business BMW said it will take majority control of its main China joint venture for $4.2 billion, the first such move by a global automaker as Beijing starts to relax ownership rules for the world's biggest auto market. Trump considers auto tariffs as VW & BMW plan new U.S. plants European carmakers are bracing after the U.S. President said that new auto tariffs were "being studied now," asserting they could prevent job cuts such as the U.S. layoffs and plant closures that General Motors Co announced this week. Five of the best badge revivals Sometimes, car manufacturers look to the past to define their future. Here are five examples of badge revivals done right in the motor industry. Present it!: Mercedes B-Class Mercedes has unveiled its new B-Class on the Spanish island of Mallorca. It's a lot different from its predecessor, with a more dynamic appearance, more agile handling and more comfort. Mercedes reveals new B-Class The Mercedes B-Class will arrive in the UK before the end of 2018. Justin Bieber's $200k car broke down Justin Bieber was left red faced this week when he Mercedes-Benz SLS broke down on an intersection in New York. F1 driver Lewis Hamilton launches AMG's new hypercar Mercedes-Benz has unveiled a multimillion-dollar Formula One-inspired hypercar, boasting over 1,000 horsepower.
The new Project One was given a helping hand by Mercedes' Formula One racing driver Lewis Hamilton at the IAA motor show in Frankfurt. "We are 2 secs quicker than F1 drivers" Esports champs at Monza Sauber F1 eSports drivers Salih Saltunc, Sonuc Saltunc and Allert van der Wal opened up on their route into F1 eSports, being quicker than drivers Charles Leclerc and Marcus Ericsson - and hopes of becoming test drivers for the F1 team itself on T... Lamborghini unveils new SUV Supercar maker Lamborghini has unveiled a new SUV.  The Urus joins the luxury SUV field alongside the Bentley Bentayga and the Porsche Cayenne. Innovative: Mercedes EQC Mercedes-Benz recently invited journalists from all over the world to the Swedish capital Stockholm for the global premiere of its new all-electric SUV. The EQC is the first model in Mercedes' new electric "EQ" line and is classed as a crossover SUV. BMW presents new autonomous, electric car in Los Angeles German high-end carmaker BMW presents a new electric and autonomous car in Los Angeles ahead of the Auto Show, hoping that the model can take on Tesla in the electric car sector. Mercedes S-Class Coupe - Everything you need to know Everything you need to know about the new Mercedes S-Class Coupe. Abducted Russian takes law into his own hands in kidnapper face-off The Russian businessman opened fire and rammed the vehicle frequented by his kidnappers in Moscow Subaru halts Japan car output on defective part, shares slide Subaru said its sole car factory in Japan, accounting for roughly 60 percent of global production, could be out of action for almost two weeks after it discovered a suspected defect in a power-steering component. Luxury racer: Lexus LC 500 This luxury coupe has a super powerful 5 liter V8 engine But it is also pretty heavy, weighing in at close to two tons. It is packed with hi-tech. The interior is beautifully crafted. Fast off the Line: The Mercedes AMG C63s The C63 is the only sedan in the performance segment that boasts eight cylinders. Now there's a refreshed version of the German powerhouse. It's set apart by its Panamericana grille - exclusive to AMG models. Raj Nair (Ford) on timing in the automotive industry Raj Nair (Ford) on timing in the automotive industry   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.