Kamva Somdyala Firemen battling a fire in the Western Cape.  (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The fire that ripped through Van Der Stel Pass near Grabouw in the Western Cape, has been contained, the Western Cape local government said on Friday. On Monday, News24 reported that the fire had been "60-80%" contained, having raged through the area for just shy of a week. Western Cape local government spokesperson James-Brent Styan says there are currently "no active fire lines" in the area. "Yes, it has been contained," he said. "Firefighters will continue to monitor the area and there will be firefighters on scene to make sure there aren't any flare-ups." Mop-operations would now commence, he added. Last week Saturday, Capetonians took to Twitter complaining about smoke hovering over much of the City Bowl, southern suburbs and northern suburb areas as wind blew strong smog eastwards from Grabouw. PICS: Fire raging at Van Der Stel Pass, Cape Town filled with smoke At the time, officials said the fire lines on the pass were much better but the tricky weather conditions made things unpredictable. Styan said lesser teams would stay in the area "throughout the day or even the next couple of days". At the same time, on Sunday, Cape Town firefighters worked throughout the night to put out a fire in the Signal Hill and Lion's Head areas. Those fires have also been extinguished. Firefighters were praised for their efforts in containing the fires. WATCH: Fire engulfs Lion's Head Families living in Sea Point, Cape Town evacuated their homes on Sunday evening as the flames that engulfed the lower slopes of Lion's Head near Quarry Hill were coming down on them. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits. WATCH:  Fire rages out of control near Hermanus Firefighters from the Overstrand Municipality have spent the last 24 hours fighting an out of control fire about 10km from Hermanus in the Western Cape. WATCH- Aerial footage shows Lion's Head fire aftermath Aerial footage shows Lion's Head fire aftermath taken from one of the Working on fire Helicopters WATCH: Video shows razed homes after fire sweeps through Hartenbos, Mossel Bay Two houses have been destroyed in a blaze in Mossel Bay's Hartenbos Heuwels. WATCH: Firefighters leave Overstrand with song and dance The firefighters who tirelessly battled to bring a raging fire in the Overstrand area under control have held a parade to thank the community for their support. 'The fire was higher than the roof here'- Hermanus farmer "Camphill, you've got 30 minutes until that fire is on you." These were the chilling words that came through as a Hermanus farm community, housing 54 intellectually disabled patients, was forced to evacuate. WATCH: Betty's Bay fire victim shares heartbreaking experience of the blaze A Betty's Bay resident has spoken out about the trauma of losing her home in a fire that raged through the town at the weekend. WATCH: At least 31 houses destroyed in Overstrand wildfires; video shows devastation in Betty's Bay At least 31 houses have been completely destroyed and 28 partially damaged by wildfires on the coastal Overstrand region in the Western Cape. WATCH: Western Cape firefighters end gruelling day with uplifting song A group of firefighters returned to their base at the Crassula hall in Betty's Bay on Friday, with song and dance. WATCH: Overstrand fire rages on Air support has been brought in to battle a large fire in the Overstrand area in the Western Cape. The fire has devastated areas close to Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els. WATCH: Used car dealership goes up in flames The New Year got off to a bad start for the owner of this used car dealership in Goodwood, Cape Town. 
Tony McGeer, owner of Mc Gee's Auto says he received a phone call in the early hours of January 2, alerting him to a fire at his dealership. WATCH: Firefighter fight blaze to save hectares of Paarl fynbos destroyed in fire At least 500ha of 15-year-old fynbos was lost in the fire that swept through part of Paarl mountain, the Drakenstein municipality said as they scaled down on operations on Friday. WATCH: Train up in flames in Mayfair Two carriages of a passenger train caught fire at Mayfair Station, west of Johannesburg on Sunday. WATCH: Fire rages through Paarl mountains Firefighters are battling a fire raging through the mountains in Paarl, Western Cape. WATCH: This Garden Route 'firenado' is actually a fire whirl "Firenados" are more correctly called fire whirls, explained South African Weather Service chief forecaster Kevin Rae after a video capturing the phenomena made the rounds over the weekend. WATCH: Outpouring of support in Pretoria after 300 people left homeless following shack fires On Saturday afternoon, 62 shacks burnt down in Plastic View informal settlement adjacent to the NG Gemeente in Moreletapark, Pretoria. WATCH: Edenvale fire victims overwhelmed by donations after losing everything Rebecca Mtya and her mother recently lost everyting in a fire, but members of the Edenvale community have opened up their hearts and wallets in order to get them back on their feet again. WATCH: More than 1 300 homeless after Khayelitsha blaze More than 1300 people have been left homeless after hundreds of shacks were destroyed in a blaze which broke out in Khayelitsha, the City of Cape Town said. WATCH: Flames engulf Kempton Park bus fleet Quick-acting firefighters in the east of Johannesburg were able to extinguish a blaze that engulfed a fleet of parked vehicles, late last week. WATCH- Three firefighters confirmed dead following Johannesburg building fire.mp4 WATCH- Three firefighters confirmed dead following Johannesburg building fire WATCH: No injuries or fatalities in South African factory fire Johannesburg emergency services spent hours trying to contain a fire that broke out in a glue and paper factory in Kya Sands, Johannesburg, on Wednesday morning. WATCH: City Power suspects "deliberate acts of sabotage" at South African substation Johannesburg City Power says they suspect that the cause of the explosion at the Rand Water Eikenhof Pumping Station was a "result of a deliberate act of sabotage".   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.