Kaveel Singh A Durban mosque has been petrol-bombed. (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Worshippers at a Durban mosque have been left in shock and disbelief after the building was set on fire, destroying a large portion of the place of worship, an official told News24 on Monday. "There is a lot of grief at the moment. It is almost like there is a death in the family. It is like losing a mother or a child," Imraan Subrathie, a senior official at the Faizane Mariam Masjid said. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said police were investigating a case of arson. She said a worker at the mosque who lives on-site heard the breaking of windows around 00:20. "He saw fire inside the mosque and managed to get out through the window. No injuries were reported. The prayer room was extensively damaged. It is suspected that unknown suspects poured petrol and fled the scene." Faizane Mariam Masjid which was petrol bombed in the early hours of Monday morning (Twitter) Subrathie said the mosque, located on Effingham Road, was always a place of peace. "We cannot understand why someone would do such a thing. There are a lot of foreign nationals that use this as a place of safety and worship. It means so much to so many people. Our worshippers are literally in tears." He said that in the 18 years that the mosque has existed, there had never been an incident "of this magnitude". "We have had incidents of vandalism, but nothing like this."  Moving forward Subrathie said that while the mosque was badly damaged, they were not giving up. "Worship is continuing at the back section that has been saved. Some activities are continuing as normal. It is a large area that has been damaged, but we want to get it repaired for our worshippers." He said mosque officials had been assisting authorities. "There are a host of investigators on-site and we are looking into possible eyewitnesses so we can get to the bottom of this." He called for calm as investigations continued. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building. Worshippers at mosque get their blood pumping with post-prayer gym class The faithful at a mosque in the Iraqi Kurdish town of Halabja have been keeping fit after prayer thanks to regular exercise classes inside the holy building. Alexandre Bissonnette sentenced to serve 40 years in prison The man who opened fire during evening prayers at a Quebec City mosque in 2017 has been sentenced to serve 40 years in prison before being eligible for parole. Quebec Superior Court Justice Francois Huot called Alexandre Bissonnette's attack gratu... Pope visits Grand Mosque on historic UAE visit Pope Francis, the first pontiff to set foot on the peninsula where Islam was born, visited the Grand Mosque in Abu Dhabi on Monday - on a historic trip he hopes will foster peace through religious dialogue. Grenade attack kills two at southern Philippines mosque The grenade explosion tore through the mosque as the victims were sleeping before dawn on the insurgency-plagued island of Mindanao, which is home to the Philippines' Muslim minority. #Philippines #mindanao #duterte Turkey: Liberal Imam on thin ice If Turkey's Directorate of Religious Affairs, or Diyanet, gets its way, imam Ahmet Muhsin Tuzer will be forbidden from preaching in his small mosque because of his second love: Turkish rock music. Singing breaks a taboo. What do Muslims in Germany have to say about a 'mosque tax'? Germany is discussing a "mosque tax" for Muslims similar to the "church tax" that German Christians pay. Here's what German Muslims have to say about it. #Germany, #mosque, #tax Marutanian imam praises Saudi Arabia and its crown prince "It's a religious duty to pray for Saudi Arabia and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman."

The imam of the Great Mosque in Mauritania, Ahmadou Ould Lemrabet, spoke in defence of Saudi Arabia, sparking outrage on social media.
#crownprince #Mauritania... Iraq lays cornerstone to rebuild iconic Mosul mosque Iraqis lay the cornerstone in rebuilding Mosul's Al-Nuri mosque and leaning minaret, national emblems destroyed last year in the ferocious battle against the Islamic State group. The famed 12th century mosque and minaret, dubbed Al-Hadba or "the h... Iraq lays cornerstone to rebuild iconic Mosul mosque Iraqis lay the cornerstone in rebuilding Mosul's Al-Nuri mosque and leaning minaret, national emblems destroyed last year in the ferocious battle against the Islamic State group. The famed 12th century mosque and minaret, dubbed Al-Hadba or "the h... British imam sacked after criticising Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman "Khashoggi's murder changed everything. They wanted to make sure that nobody criticised him."
British imam Ajmal Masroor says he was fired from a Saudi-funded mosque in central London for criticising Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.
#Khashoggi #M... Hindu nationalists rally in New Delhi demanding a temple in Ayodhya More than 200,000 Hindu nationalists gathered in New Delhi, calling for a temple to be built at a disputed site in Ayodhya, India, where a 16th-century mosque was previously demolished by Hindu nationalists in 1992.
#India #Babrimasjid #Ayodyha Jamal Khashoggi's Istanbul funeral prayers More than six weeks after his death, funeral prayers were held for Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi in Istanbul and around the world. Friends, family, journalists and hundreds of supporters gathered at Istanbul's Fatih Mosque to pay respects to th... Egypt struggles to restore Cairo's historic heart Islamic Cairo is packed with ornate monuments, mosques and mausoleums, and its narrow streets are punctuated with trinket shops, cafes and traditional old homes -- an urban fabric layered in centuries of history. But the task to patch up decades o... Pedestrians hit by car in 'anti-Muslim attack' outside mosque Detectives are investigating whether an incident in which a car hit pedestrians outside a mosque was an anti-Muslim attack. The country with Muslims but no mosque Slovakia is one of very few European countries with no mosque, but that's not the only struggle for a Muslim community denied official status. The Slovak parliament made it even more difficult for them to gain recognition. Youth discharge fireworks near Jerusalem mosque, Israeli police move in Masked youth set off fireworks near the revered al-Aqsa mosque on Friday, as police charged the compound which is a frequent flashpoint of Israeli-Palestinian tensions. Japan launches mobile mosque for 2020 Tokyo Olympics Tokyo sports and cultural events company, Yasu Project designed the mobile mosque to facilitate Muslim visitors and as a tool to promote world peace Seyran Ates: 'It seems I'm destined to survive' Lawyer and imam Seyran Ates founded the liberal Ibn Rushd-Goethe mosque in Berlin. Finsbury Park attack: Jeremy Corbyn and Sadiq Khan attend memorial A minute's silence has been held to mark a year since Makram Ali, a father-of-six, died and others injured in a terror attack near a mosque in north London. Turkish President Erdogan's reaction to Austria's mosque and imam ban Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan reacts to Austria's PM Sebastian Kurz's ban on the 7 mosques and 60 Turkish imams in the country accused of promoting 'political Islam'. Blogger Steve Hanisch on the road in Iran Shiraz is one of Iran's five largest cities. Steve Hanisch visits the Vakil Mosque, Karim Khan Citadel, the Nasir ol Molk Mosque, the grave of the Persian poet Hafiz and the UNESCO World Heritage site of Persepolis. Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn urges inquiry into Conservative Islamophobia allegations Jeremy Corbyn said it was right allegations of racism were addressed and dealt with during a visit to a west London mosque. UK mosque accepting cryptocurrency for charity donations A mosque in London is hoping to double the amount of charity donations made during Ramadan month by becoming the first in Britain to accept bitcoin payments. Libya car bomb kills at least seven, injures ten A deadly car bomb explosion on a busy street in Libya's capital Benghazi kills at least seven people and wounds ten others. Are China's re-education camps a cultural cleansing campaign? They "made us promise we wouldn't go to the mosque on Friday" - Inside China's re-education camps, where detainees are brainwashed and tortured. Palestinians light up Jerusalem's Old City during Ramadan Palestinians light up the Old City during Ramadan to welcome visitors coming to Al Aqsa mosque. But that's not all, here's what else the colourful decor symbolises. First mosque opens in outer hebrides The first mosque in the Outer Hebrides has opened in time for Ramadan. A derelict building in Stornoway on the Isle of Lewis has been converted into a mosque following a crowdfunding campaign which raised more than GBP94,000. Food boxes for Egyptians in need during Ramadan Charities in Egypt will help the poor during Ramadan by donating about half a million boxes of food and providing iftar meals for those in need at food centres across the country. Crown hopes Quebec mosque shooter's guilty plea brings 'relief' Alexandre Bissonnette has pleaded guilty to six charges of murder and six charges of attempted murder in last year's Quebec mosque attack. Bissonnette originally pleaded not guilty to the 12 charges Monday. Quebec mosque gunman explains motives in interrogation video The gunman who killed six men at a Quebec City mosque told police he believed his family was at risk of terrorist attack. Alexandre Bissonnette's January 2017 police interrogation video is being played at his sentencing hearing. 'Groped by Holy Mosque guard during Hajj' A number of women have taken to social media to say they've been sexually assaulted during the Hajj pilgrimage. 'Groped by Holy Mosque guard during Hajj' A number of women have taken to social media to say they've been sexually assaulted during the Hajj pilgrimage. How this church plans to fight a gunman As places of worship have become targets, training sessions are meant to increase readiness. Take a tour of Abu Dhabi's Grand Mosque Rajan Datar visits the Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque which took 11 years to construct. Metropolitan police release 999 call after Finsbury Park attack 999 call from witness Adnan Mohamud as a van hit pedestrians outside a mosque in North London. He shot at a mosque - and his life changed A man fired at a mosque in retaliation for the Paris terror attacks.  Then he tried to make amends. At the ruins of al-Nuri mosque The BBC's Feras Kilani joins the Iraqi army as it pushes so-called Islamic State out of central Mosul. Last pictures of Mosul's al-Nuri mosque BBC Arabic filmed the mosque from the front line in Mosul, just hours before it was blown up. Question Time row over 'mosque' leaflet An audience member produces a leaflet he claims is from a mosque attended by the Manchester bomber's father. Manchester mosque: Attacker not one of us Communities in Manchester are coming together to condemn the bombing at an Ariana Grande concert on Monday. New frontline opens in battle against IS The remaining so-called Islamic State fighters in Mosul are protecting a special mosque.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.