Kaveel Singh WATCH: Rescue workers attempt to save baby from drain pipe A dramatic rescue of an apparent newborn is underway in Durban after passerby's heard the child's cries on Monday morning. Paramedics try rescue a newborn baby  from a storm water drain (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A newborn baby girl has been saved after emergency services conducted a three hour mammoth rescue from a storm drain pipe in Durban. "She has been rescued out of the drain. She was assessed by Rescue Care advanced life support paramedics before being handed over to the Air Mercy helicopter crew by EMRS," said Rescue Care spokesperson Garrith Jamieson. READ: Dramatic rescue of baby under way in Durban The child's cries were heard around 07:30 on Monday on the corner of Barricuder Road and Herring Way in Newlands East. A rescue effort with police search and rescue together with numerous other services continued for three hours. WATCH: Baby rescued from rubble 35 hours after deadly building collapse Skilled officers had to burrow into the ground and stabilise the area around the pipe. The child could be heard during most of the rescue. "We can hear the baby crying. Durban fire department and the police search and rescue have cleared around the pipe and are trying to reach the child," Jamieson earlier said. The baby was handed to the Air Mercy helicopter that transported her to hospital. #BabyRescue: What a moment! The baby has been rescued. Cheers all around from the community. The baby appears to be in good health and was treated by paramedics. @OpenNewsSA pic.twitter.com/ivyZWFtf3D  WATCH: Enterprising Joburgers 'ferry' passengers across flooded road Enterprising Joburgers came to the rescue of stranded pedestrians looking to cross a flooded street near Noord Street taxi rank. WATCH: Fire rescue Bambi trotting on the road to recovery At just a few months old, a rescued baby Cape Grysbok has touched the hearts of the many residents of the Cape overstrand area, which has recently been underthreat by a devastating fire for two weeks. WATCH: Two men who saved man from drowning on beach on New Year's Day say they aren't heroes Two young men put their own lives at risk to save a stranger from drowning on a Western Cape beach on New Year's Day. 
When Dewald van der Westhuizen (22)  and Hannes Swart (22) noticed a man in trouble, they swam to his aid, without thinking twice. WATCH: Man desperately tries to save beached dolphin When Paul Gardiner spotted a dolphin stranded on a beach in the Eastern Cape, he didn't think twice before trying to rescue the animal. WATCH: Taxi collision leaves 1 dead in Ballito One person has been killed following a collision between a taxi and a light vehicle in Ballito on Saturday afternoon. Watch. WATCH: Beached whale was 'suffering, in process of dying' "We may never know why the animal was stranded," Lieze Swart of the Department of Environmental Affairs (Oceans and Coasts) told News24, after an 11m sub-adult Humpback whale beached at Yzerfontein earlier this week.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.