Tshidi Madia ANC (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The ANC in Ekurhuleni and one of its coalition partners, the AIC, are at odds over the metro's chief operations officer Lesiba Mojapelo, with the latter calling for his immediate suspension. AIC regional secretary Yongama Mabeng told News24 that the party had tasked its council members with tabling a motion for Mojapelo to go when a Special Investigating Unit (SIU) report is discussed in council. The SIU report found that the COO had deviated from supply-chain policies to award record label TS Records a R4m tender to market the city council's 2010 FIFA World Cup activities. The report, which Gauteng Premier David Makhura handed over to Ekurhuleni Mayor Mzwandile Masina last year, is expected to be on the agenda when council meets on Thursday. Mojapelo is believed to have used his powers, then as the project manager of Ekurhuleni's 2010 World Cup Legacy Projects, to ensure former business partners Thembinkosi "TK" Ncisa and Sibusiso "DJ Sbu" Leope won the tender, without undergoing the tender process. "He must go immediately; they suspended the others, why has he been left behind?" said Mabengu. Ekurhuleni suspended Lusanda Madikizela, who was the head of the city's transport department, and later fired her following financial misconduct allegations. The council also suspended chief financial officer Gugu Malaza over allegations of non-disclosure of information regarding her dismissal from the SABC for "procurement and financial irregularities". 'We want to run a clean government' "We really just want to run a clean government. We want to be a part of a clean government and where processes are followed," Mabengu told News24. When asked about speaking to their coalition partners or directly approaching the Ekurhuleni mayor, Mabengu said "they are busy. Those people are very busy". Some in the ANC have echoed this call, with a party member from the region who wanted to remain anonymous claiming Mojapelo was being protected by the city's elite. A source with knowledge of the matter, but who isn't mandated to speak officially, complained that Ekurhuleni continued to act in a manner that was at odds with the party's national agenda, questioning why the leadership there couldn't seem to follow President Cyril Ramaphosa's "Thuma mina" message. "ANC in Ekurhuleni can't always be seen to be in opposition to the president," said the ANC member, who is also a branch leader. The mayor's spokesperson, Phakamile Mbengashe, said the SIU report, including allegations levelled against Mojapelo, would be tabled at Thursday's council meeting. "All political parties represented in council will have the opportunity to deliberate extensively on this matter. The outcome of today's council meeting will be communicated to the public immediately after council adjourns," he said.  Outa, ANCGP and civil society groups march to union buildings against etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. Thousands marched through the streets of Tshwane on Friday morning. WATCH: ANC paints Joburg yellow demanding service delivery Hundreds of ANC members from greater Joburg – in collaboration with alliance partners Sanco, SACP and Cosatu – are marching to the offices of Mayor Herman Mashaba, Premier David Makhura and Eskom to hand over memorandums demanding service delivery WATCH: Armed local farmer walks into demonstration in Greyton Western Cape police are probing an incident involving a man who was caught on camera on Monday, wielding a firearm during a demonstration in Greyton. WATCH: ANC mourns the passing of Mendi Msimang - 'A giant tree has fallen' ANC pays tribute to struggle stalwart and its former treasurer-general Mendi Msimang following his passing at the age of 78. WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. WATCH: 'We are not fighting the ANC' - Mahumapelo ahead of court appearance Former ANC North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo addresses supporters before fighting the NEC decision to disband his PEC at the South Gauteng High Court. WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Police clash with marchers at ANC demonstration A scuffle ensued between a group wearing Sanco t-shirts and police after fireworks was allegedly fired during an ANC march on Friday to Premier David Makhura's office demanding service delivery. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. WATCH: Damage to 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard a criminal act – DA The DA has called the damage inflicted on its newly unveiled 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, a 'criminal act'. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: IEC hails new law to ensure transparency in political party funding President Cyril Ramaphosa signed the Political Party Funding bill into law on Tuesday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.