Pelane Phakgadi The vegetation fire was being fanned by a strong south-easterly wind. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Table Mountain fire in Cape Town which broke on Friday evening has been contained. City fire and rescue spokesperson Theo Layne said that by late in the evening, work was still underway to totally extinguish the blaze. "No property has been damaged, nor anyone injured.. what is left now is the mopping out process", said Layne. Residential areas were not affected. According to Layne, the blaze was caused by a cooking fire, which spread to the lower slopes of Table Mountain along Tafelberg Road. Fire and rescue personnel were alerted to the fire just after 18:00. The blaze came five days after an inferno broke out on the other side of the mountain on Sunday, resulting in firefighters battling the fire into the following day. Another cape town fire. This time on table mountain below Cable Station.#capetownfire #fire #tablemountainfire #tablemountain pic.twitter.com/LO7sxYsmXp @wo_fire airborne in strong winds #TableMountainFire @vwsfires @NCCwildfires @TableMountainNP @TableMntnWatch pic.twitter.com/c1mQL8JCIR — Ian Merrington (@CapeInnovation) February 1, 2019 Another video.Helicopters water bombing.#TableMountainFire pic.twitter.com/9N8TFiZftU  WATCH:  Fire rages out of control near Hermanus Firefighters from the Overstrand Municipality have spent the last 24 hours fighting an out of control fire about 10km from Hermanus in the Western Cape. WATCH: Fire engulfs Lion's Head Families living in Sea Point, Cape Town evacuated their homes on Sunday evening as the flames that engulfed the lower slopes of Lion's Head near Quarry Hill were coming down on them. It's time to involve the entire security cluster - Blade Nzimande after latest Cape Town train fire Firefighters have arrived at Cape Town train station to battle yet another train-related blaze after thick, black smoke permeated the air above the station on Tuesday. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits. WATCH: 'A fairy-tale day' as homeless couple exchanges wedding vows A dream came true for Llewellyn Jenniker and Cecilia Jenniker on Tuesday when the homeless couple, who've been living together on the streets for decades, finally tied the knot. WATCH: Hiker has close encounter with wild caracal on Table Mountain An unsuspecting hiker had a close encounter with a caracal on a trail in Table Mountain National Park on Monday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.