Tammy Petersen Jeneva Diergal (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Almost a month after 8-year-old Jeneva Diergal disappeared while her mother ran errands in their hometown of Klawer, there is still no sign of the partially paralysed and mentally disabled girl. Western Cape police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel André Traut said on Wednesday that her disappearance was still under investigation. A week after the disappearance, Jeneva's mother Gertruida told News24 that she that she believed her child had been taken by someone she knew because she was wary of strangers. READ: Mom believes missing disabled daughter was 'taken by someone she knows' The last time she saw Jeneva was before she left for town on January 25. She left the girl in the care of her aunt, who had been watching her play with her cousin, before she quickly went into the house for a glass of water. Gertruida's sister phoned her while she was away to tell her she couldn't find Jeneva. Volunteers searched for the child, combing through fields, koppies, bushes and neighbouring towns. A reward has been offered for her safe return but there hasn't been any response. Western Cape social development MEC Albert Fritz said Jeneva had reportedly been spotted twice since she was reported missing - once near a canal in Klawer and again near the N7. "She can be identified by her dark braids, medium weight, glasses and limp on the right side of her body. At the time of her disappearance, Jeneva was reportedly dressed in black tights and a pink top," Fritz said. "I want to commend the community and law enforcement officials who are working tirelessly to find Jeneva. Helicopters, drones, divers, dog squads, search and rescue, the community, the community police, and neighbourhood watch have each searched Klawer and the surrounding areas for Jeneva." Anyone who has information about the missing child's whereabouts can contact Captain Matthys on 082 334 8862.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.