Jenni Evans Fun World in Durban (PHOTO: Durban Fun World Facebook page) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories North Beach Mochachos director Yaseen Amod spoke to News24 about the damage caused to his food outlet on Sunday, after waves washed over the promenade. Watch.  
WATCH Durban police have opened an inquest docket after a man fell off the beachfront's famous cable car and died. "A case of inquest was opened at Point police station after a 23-year-old man allegedly fell from a cable car yesterday afternoon," said Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane. "He was taken to hospital where he later died of his injuries." READ: Man killed in fall from 9th floor of building in Hillbrow The person who answered the phone at Fun World declined a News24 offer to comment, and said the victim's family had requested privacy. eThekwini mayoral spokesperson Mthunzi Gumede said reports indicate that the young man allegedly stood up and subsequently fell onto a moving ride on the ground, IOL reported. He was rushed to hospital and died around 19:00. Mayor Zandile Gumede expressed her condolences to the family. WATCH: Hundreds gather for emotional night vigil at Hoërskool Driehoek Hundreds of people gathered at Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark for an emotional night vigil, after a concrete slab collapsed at the school, killing three children and seriously injuring 25 others. WATCH: Grandmother of injured Hoërskool Driehoek describes shock of walkway collapse A grandmother , whose child attends Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark, was injured in an accident on Friday, WATCH: Tshwane mayor visits Pretoria train crash victims' families Tshwane Metro Mayor, Solly Msimanga, visited two families of the deceased from last week's Mountain View train accident.
Msimanga expressed his condolences and offered support with the funeral arrangements. WATCH: Emergency personnel working to free people trapped under collided trains At least three people have been confirmed dead, while scores of others have been left injured following a train collision at Mountain View station, Pretoria on
Tuesday morning. WATCH: Limpopo accident leaves 26 dead, among them 2 children Two children are among the 26 people who died in a horror multi-vehicle collision on the N1 in Mookgopong outside Modimolle, Limpopo, on Friday.

Four people survived the crash and were taken to various hospitals for medical treatment. WATCH: Taxi collision leaves 1 dead in Ballito One person has been killed following a collision between a taxi and a light vehicle in Ballito on Saturday afternoon. Watch. WATCH: Four bus crashes in one day leave 150 injured, two dead in KZN Helicopter footage of a bus that crashed into a home in Tongaat, KwaZulu-Natal has emerged online.

According to the KZN emergency medical services, over 150 people suffered serious to moderate injuries in three other incidents in the province. WATCH: Ferrari accident on the N2 Cape Town.mp4 Rion from CF towing  was 1st person on  the scene said the driver lost control when he looked down and the next thing he hit the highway concrete on the N2 Airport turn off.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.