Jenni Evans Minister Michael Masutha.  (Lisa Hnatowicz/Foto24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories An official in the security management section of the Department of Justice and Constitutional Development has been placed on precautionary suspension, Minister Michael Masutha said on Monday. This followed an internal probe into the irregular procurement of the services of Global Technology Solutions, formerly Bosasa, he said. This related to the contract for services to the Zondo commission. READ: R10m Bosasa contract with Zondo commission irregular - probe finds Masutha said a letter had also been served on a senior official in security management in order for her to detail why she should not be put on precautionary suspension regarding the delay in procuring surveillance and monitoring for courts. This led to a contract being rolled over month-to month. He added that the head of the Office of the State Attorney in Gauteng was also under precautionary suspension following alleged collusion. At the same time, a prominent attorney in Mthatha, Eastern Cape, has been arrested for alleged fraudulent medico-legal claims amounting to more than R100m, and the Department of Health has put a hold on further medico-legal claims. In-sourcing The department was also planning to insource food services at prisons with an "offender skills programme" to replace the cancelled contract with African Global Systems, formerly known as Bosasa, Masutha said. "Processes to transfer skilled staff from other facilities to assist where necessary are currently underway," he said at a media briefing. AGO was feeding 46 434 of the approximately 160 000 offenders at 26 kitchens. When the contract was cancelled following revelations at the Zondo commission, staffers and unions expressed concerns over what would happen to the people who used to work in the kitchens on these contracts. The insourcing programme would start from March 8, Masutha said. READ: Bosasa board dissolved, workers to keep their jobs for now - liquidator African Global Systems went into voluntary liquidation last week and two banks have indicated that they will not do business with them anymore. Masutha thanked the media, whistleblowers, organised labour, NGOs and other sectors of society who have been involved in the fight against corruption. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   WATCH: SARS swoops on Bosasa A team of South African Revenue Service officials arrived at Bosasa's head office shortly after noon on Friday to execute a search and seizure warrant. WATCH: Bosasa liquidator takes charge of documents, servers Bosasa liquidator Cloete Murray on Friday took charge at the company's headquarters in Krugersdorp following their voluntary liquidation. Inside the ANC's Bosasa election war room Bosasa sponsored these war rooms for the past three elections for the ANC, at an estimated cost of R2-million per election. WATCH: Bosasa staff locked out by liquidators Bosasa staff locked out by liquidators WATCH: Gavin Watson belittles Bosasa staff, talks of his tender 'networks' Gavin Watson,, CEO of Bosasa, tackles staff over mistakes in their work submitting tenders. He mentions one contract worth R800-million which was nearly lost due to such a mistake. The video was taken during a Bosasa 'Imbizo', at Silverstar Casino. ANALYSIS: In a way this is the end of Bosasa, says Adriaan Basson News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and Opinions Editor Alet Janse van Rensburg unpack the latest developments in the Bosasa scandal, after the company announced it was under voluntary liquidation. Watch. PODCAST: The depressing budget, Gavin Watson in action... and Eskom AUDIO: This week on POLOTIKI, we had the budget speech and, yes, it was depressing. Video emerged of Bosasa boss Gavin Watson belittling staff, and more explosive testimony at the commission of inquiry into state capture with the spotlight on Eskom. WATCH: Striking Bosasa workers didn't know about liquidation Workers employed by facilities management company Bosasa, now known as African Global Operations, staged a demonstration outside its Mogale City head office on Monday - minutes after the company announced its voluntary liquidation. Whistleblowers should still come forward says Hawks after Bosasa arrests ormer Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi, former correctional services CFO Patrick Gillingham, and Bosasa official Andries van Tonder, on Wednesday briefly appeared in the dock at the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court. WATCH: Agrizzi, van Tonder and Gillingham appear in dock The Hawks on Wednesday arrested six suspects on allegations of corruption, money laundering and fraud relating to Bosasa. A warrant of arrest has been issued for a seventh suspect. WATCH: 'Ja boetie...and R900k next week' – Zondo inquiry hears from Bosasa bag man Yet more explosive testimony before the Zondo Commission of inquiry into state capture on Tuesday has revealed the identity of a man who delivered cash to Bosasa, which was in turn used to pay bribes to government officials and ministers. 'I will kill you' - Bosasa operative to journalist News24 editor-in-chief Adriaan Basson told the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture that a public relations executive paid by Bosasa said she would "kill" him if he told anyone about a threatening phone call she had made to him. PODCAST: Zuma's nine lost years? Ramaphosa shouldn't forget — he was there AUDIO: 2019 is off to a flying start, from Bosasa and the endless inquiries to Solly Msimanga stepping down as Tshwane mayor and electioneering getting into full swing.

This week on POLOTIKI, we discuss former president Jacob Zuma's legacy. LISTEN: 'That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. LISTEN: That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. LISTEN: Bosasa bosses Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma [WITH SUBTITLES] In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. WATCH: 'Give me a tender' - sings satirical 'Elvis' on Bosasa scandal The much-talked about Bosasa scandal has gripped South Africa over the past week since former chief-operating officer Angelo Agrizzi blew the whistle on bribery and corruption. LISTEN: Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. WATCH: Agrizzi details unfair advantage given to Bosasa to secure 'one of the biggest' tenders Former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi is on the stand for the fifth day at the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry: Agrizzi continues his testimony, who will be implicated? Angelo Agrizzi has revealed more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Agrizzi claims he packed R50 000 a month for Minister Mokonyane Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi told the Zondo Commission that the company catered for ANC rallies and paid for the ruling party's birthday cake. Agrizzi was testifying about the relationship between Bosasa and Cabinet minister Nomvula Mokonyana WATCH: Agrizzi, Watson paid regular visits to Mokonyane's house, along with R50 000 #StateCaptureInquiry | Angelo Agrizzi continues to reveal more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Bosasa and #StateCapture | Here's what you need to know... Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson emerges as 'kingpin of bribes' Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson has emerged as the absolute kingpin in the Bosasa empire of bribes, intimidation and cold hard cash. WATCH: Former Bossasa COO unpacks the bribes Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi on Thursday detailed the money trail allegedly used for bribing state entities. WATCH | 'Every single contract was tainted with bribes' - Agrizzi testifies #StateCaptureInquiry The second day of testimony by former Bosasa top boss Angelo Agrizzi in the commission of inquiry into state capture continues. ANALYSIS | #StateCaptureInquiry: Unpacking Agrizzi's testimony Watch as News24 investigative journalist Kyle Cowen and journalist Jeanette Chabalala unpack former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi's revelations at the state capture commission. WATCH: Bosasa spent between 'R4m and R6m a month' in cash bribes - Agrizzi at #StateCaptureInquiry Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi continues to testify at state capture inquiry - Day 2 The second day of testimony by former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi at the commission of inquiry into state capture is set to be far more explosive and damning for the ruling ANC party and his former colleagues. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi testifies at state capture inquiry The Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture resumed on Wednesday with former Bosasa employee Angelo Agrizzi on the witness stand. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.