Jeanette Chabalala Lawrence Mrwebi Foto: HERMAN VERWEY Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Suspended special director of public prosecutions Lawrence Mrwebi allegedly interfered with investigations against then-crime intelligence boss Richard Mdluli in order to stop the case.This was revealed by Colonel Kobus Roelofse of the SAPS Directorate for Priority Crimes Investigation on Tuesday at the Mokgoro inquiry.The inquiry chaired by retired Constitutional Court Justice Yvonne Mokgoro is looking into Mrwebi's fitness to hold office, as well as that of deputy prosecution boss Nomgcobo Jiba."Is there any factual basis upon which you base your allegation that advocate Mrwebi interfered in the investigations against Mdluli?" Mrewbi's lawyer Ally Ramawele asked. READ: Mokgoro inquiry: How charges were dropped against Mdluli Roelofse agreed, saying Mrwebi's decision made it difficult for them to investigate the matter, because of the "views" he held at the time. Ramawele put it to Roelofse that there was no factual basis upon which he could claim that Mrwebi had stopped the Mdluli investigation. "From where I sit… Mrwebi interfered with [the] investigation," Roelofse replied. Roelofse was appointed to investigate Mdluli in 2011. Mdluli was facing charges of fraud, theft and corruption for allegedly pillaging the Crime Intelligence slush fund. During his testimony, Roelofse also told Mokgoro that there had been a decision to inform police officers to stop the investigation. Mdluli matter "It was clear from communication we have received... that he [Mrwebi] was not going to review and he decided that the case is closed. I cannot see anything other than he is telling me that we must stop the case," he said. ALSO READ: Mokgoro inquiry: Jiba denies flying to Durban with Mdluli to meet with 'someone from ANC' But Ramawele said the Mdluli matter had never been ready, and was still not ready to go to court. He also said the reason for this was because it was never properly investigated. "Madam chair, that is not correct. The matter was finalised… as far as that case being trial ready and court ready, it was. The SAPS were asked that they cannot investigate the matter, that is the bottom line," Roelofse replied. He said, at the time, that investigations were complete and that it was enough for them to go on prosecution. He also said that, in December 2011, the prosecutor in the matter had been "happy" that the case could go on trial. Last week, Roelofse told the inquiry that, during his investigations, he had been informed that Mdluli's family members had flights paid for from the account. Following a search of the premises of a travel agent, Roelofse said he had managed to get a number of documents, but testified that the travel agent had been tipped off by a member of Crime Intelligence that he would be searched by officials, News24 reported.  WATCH: Agrizzi details unfair advantage given to Bosasa to secure 'one of the biggest' tenders Former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi is on the stand for the fifth day at the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry: Agrizzi continues his testimony, who will be implicated? Angelo Agrizzi has revealed more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Agrizzi, Watson paid regular visits to Mokonyane's house, along with R50 000 #StateCaptureInquiry | Angelo Agrizzi continues to reveal more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Bosasa spent between 'R4m and R6m a month' in cash bribes - Agrizzi at #StateCaptureInquiry Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi continues to testify at state capture inquiry - Day 2 The second day of testimony by former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi at the commission of inquiry into state capture is set to be far more explosive and damning for the ruling ANC party and his former colleagues. WATCH | 'Every single contract was tainted with bribes' - Agrizzi testifies #StateCaptureInquiry The second day of testimony by former Bosasa top boss Angelo Agrizzi in the commission of inquiry into state capture continues. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi testifies at state capture inquiry The Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture resumed on Wednesday with former Bosasa employee Angelo Agrizzi on the witness stand. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan wraps up his testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day3 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan wrapped up his testimony at the judicial inquiry into state capture sitting in Johannesburg on Wednesday. Watch. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan continues testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day2 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan faced intimidation and victimisation for refusing to be party to state capture, the judicial inquiry into state capture headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo heard on Monday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.