Sesona Ngqakamba Prophet Shepherd Bushiri of the Enlightened Christian Gathering Church appears before the CRL (Cultural Religious and Linguistic) Rights Commission inquiry. (Veli Nhlapo, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri, 35, and wife, Mary, have been granted bail of R100 000 each. The two appeared in the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court in Pretoria on Wednesday. READ: Self-proclaimed prophet Bushiri, wife to apply for bail Among the bail conditions is that the couple remains in Gauteng.  Magistrate Mark van Wyk said their travel documents must remain with the state. However, if they need to travel, they would need to get written permission from investigating officers. Bushiri and wife are also not allowed to make contact with any of the witnesses. From as early as 06:00, Visagie street in Pretoria was once again packed with congregants from Bushiri's Enlightened Christian Gathering church who prayed, sang songs of praise and called for his release. This was the couple's second appearance, after being in court on Monday. The court heard that the state was not opposing the bail as it believed that none of the grounds set out in the section 60 of the criminal procedure act existed.Bushiri's lawyer, advocate Johan Hattingh told magistrate Van Wyk that the couple was in the country legally, and that they had no previous convictions. The state told the court that the couple's address was verified and that they were not a flight risk. Bushiri and his wife were arrested by the Hawks last Friday and face charges of fraud, money laundering and contravening the provision of organized crimes act. The case has been postponed to May 10.KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.