Riaan Grobler Androe Botha's house in flames.  (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A DA councillor from Polokwane is still in shock after her house burnt down in the early hours of Monday morning. Androe Botha, a single mother of four children, told News24 that she had been on her way home from Tzaneen when she started receiving pictures of her house engulfed in flames. "The first message came through at 01:26. It took about half an hour for the fire to spread through the entire house." The house, situated in the Roodepoort smallholding community in Polokwane, had five bedrooms, four bathrooms, a large kitchen, dining room and a lounge. PICS: Joburg DA councillor's house burnt to the ground "Now there is nothing left to salvage," Botha said. "The roof collapsed, all the cupboards are burnt…there is nothing left." Botha said that, fortunately, no one had been at home at the time of the blaze. "My children were at my sister's and I was out of town." Botha is currently an acting ward councillor and candidate for Ward 22 in the upcoming elections. 'Politically motivated' She suspects that the fire may have been the result of arson and that it could have been politically motivated. On Friday, Botha had an altercation with a councillor from another party who wanted her to recommend the approval of a liquor licence at a residential property. Botha refused. She also told News24 said there had been a heated council meeting on Tuesday, where DA councillors were threatened by council members of other parties and told to "go back to Holland". Botha took a video during the meeting and was allegedly called "words that I didn't know existed". Whether any of these incidents could be linked to the house fire was purely speculative, Botha acknowledged. She had, however, received an anonymous bomb threat shortly before the 2016 municipal elections. Botha was full of praise for the South African Police Service (SAPS), who had provided "unbelievable" assistance. At the time of News24's call to Botha, police were on the scene conducting a forensic investigation. Arson being investigated A SAPS member who was part of the investigation, Sergeant Mpandeni Nkuna, told News24 from the scene that police were investigating a case of arson. "Investigators are still on the scene to do the preliminary investigation," Nkuna said. DA national spokesperson Solly Malatsi told News24 that the party's national executive had been made aware of the incident. READ MORE: ANC KZN councillor's house set on fire Limpopo DA leader Jacques Smalle said he had visited the scene and saw senior police and fire department officials investigating the cause of the fire. While Smalle said arson could not be ruled out, it was too early to determine the cause of the blaze. "We are not aware of any threats that have been made [against Botha]. We will have to wait to see what the investigation reveals," Smalle said. WATCH- Aerial footage shows Lion's Head fire aftermath Aerial footage shows Lion's Head fire aftermath taken from one of the Working on fire Helicopters WATCH: Fire engulfs Lion's Head Families living in Sea Point, Cape Town evacuated their homes on Sunday evening as the flames that engulfed the lower slopes of Lion's Head near Quarry Hill were coming down on them. WATCH: Video shows razed homes after fire sweeps through Hartenbos, Mossel Bay Two houses have been destroyed in a blaze in Mossel Bay's Hartenbos Heuwels. WATCH: Betty's Bay fire victim shares heartbreaking experience of the blaze A Betty's Bay resident has spoken out about the trauma of losing her home in a fire that raged through the town at the weekend. WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. WATCH: At least 31 houses destroyed in Overstrand wildfires; video shows devastation in Betty's Bay At least 31 houses have been completely destroyed and 28 partially damaged by wildfires on the coastal Overstrand region in the Western Cape. WATCH: Overstrand fire rages on Air support has been brought in to battle a large fire in the Overstrand area in the Western Cape. The fire has devastated areas close to Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els. WATCH: Train up in flames in Mayfair Two carriages of a passenger train caught fire at Mayfair Station, west of Johannesburg on Sunday. WATCH: Fire rages through Paarl mountains Firefighters are battling a fire raging through the mountains in Paarl, Western Cape.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.