Correspondent Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) on Monday published a scathing open letter to President Cyril Ramaphosa, criticising him for being "in the belly of the beast which was the [Jacob] Zuma administration". In a statement issued on the IFP's official website, Mkhuleko Hlengwa, IFP national spokesperson, writes: "Utterances attributed to you that in Davos you spoke of 'nine wasted years' under Mr Zuma have taken me aback with a sense of shock as they are said with a very opportunistic view to distance yourself from the grave realities of those years, particularly for the poor majority as we saw everything from grand-scale corruption to the collapse of the economy to state capture. Ramaphosa has, in several speeches, referred to the period from 2008 to 2018 as a lost decade. At Davos at the end of January, he edited the period down to nine years, which coincides with the period when Zuma was in office. "All this time, sir you were a part of the system." Hlengwa points out that Ramaphosa served in the Zuma ANC national executive. "Not a word came from you. Instead, those who challenged Mr Zuma, namely Julius Malema and co, were expelled from the ANC under the auspices of the disciplinary processes that you chaired. "When Mr Kgalema Motlanthe launched his campaign against Mr Zuma for the ANC presidency, you were quick to join the Zuma slate, which delivered you as deputy president of both the ANC and South Africa." READ: PODCAST: Zuma's nine lost years? Ramaphosa shouldn't forget — he was there 'Zuma's right-hand man' Hlengwa accuses Ramaphosa of being the "right-hand man" of Zuma. "It therefore baffles the mind how you can speak of 'nine wasted years' when, for all intents and purposes, you were in the belly of the beast which was the Zuma administration. "In all those years, not once did we ever hear even squeak, until it became politically and ambitiously expedient for you as you launched your own campaign for the ANC presidency." The IFP further states that when motion after motion of no confidence came before Parliament against Zuma, Ramaphosa "shot it down choosing Mr Zuma over South Africa at least eight times". 'You stood by' "Mr President, the truth is that during those 'nine wasted years' you stood on the side of the one wasting South Africa away, not on the side of the victims of the waste: The people. "The pain inflicted on the body politic of our country, and our economy, during the 'nine wasted years' cannot be quantified, and it gained traction on the daily because those who were in positions to reign in the Waster-In-Chief [Zuma] kept quiet for their political survival." READ MORE: 'These were not nine wasted years' - Zuma hits back at detractors in ANC Hlengwa cautioned Ramaphosa that, "in the year you seek election into office by millions of South Africans", to remember that they too will judge him harshly for his "complacency and for merely standing by as a spectator, for nine years, when billions of hard-earned South African rands were siphoned, laundered and looted from the public's coffers". He urged the president to be bold "in your convictions of leadership and own your complicity in the waste you speak off". "During those [wasted] years you stood by for all nine of them. Now is the time for South Africa to see if you have what it takes to stay on for a further nine," Hlengwa said. Spokesperson for the Presidency Khusela Diko could not be reached for comment. [MUST READ] #NineWastedYears Open Letter - go to https://t.co/tfgQNLACQL to view IFP National Spokesperson @MkhulekoHlengwa's letter to President @CyrilRamaphosa #DearMrPresident #WasterInChief #Siphoned #Laundered #Looted pic.twitter.com/LvZgyTGEi0  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   PODCAST: Zuma's nine lost years? Ramaphosa shouldn't forget — he was there AUDIO: 2019 is off to a flying start, from Bosasa and the endless inquiries to Solly Msimanga stepping down as Tshwane mayor and electioneering getting into full swing.

This week on POLOTIKI, we discuss former president Jacob Zuma's legacy. WATCH: Jacob Zuma arrives at court to support son Duduzane Former president Jacob Zuma arrived at the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday show support for his son Duduzane, who has been charged with two counts of culpable homicide. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). WATCH: Ramaphosa delivers Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture President Cyril Ramaphosa is delivering the 8th Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture.

The focus of the address is restorative justice in South Africa, 20 years after the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. Zuma on land: Less debate, more nationalisation Former President Jacob Zuma said there is too much debate about land expropriation without compensation to his liking, and suggested that land should be nationalised. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. The circumstances are dire in SA but we can't lose hope - Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) leader prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi says corruption has become endemic in South Africa.  He added that people must do as much as they can to expose the corrupt politicians. The Zuma presidency: Scandals and successes Jacob Zuma has faced some controversies during his time as ANC leader. 'Our relationship went beyond politics' - Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest Mandela memories Zulu Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest memories of Nelson Mandela, on the fifth anniversary of Nelson Mandela's death. SAfrica's Ramaphosa gives speech at ANC manifesto launch 1ST IMAGES of South Africa's Cyril Ramaphosa's speech at the launch of his party's 2019 election manifesto. The African National Congress (ANC), which has ruled since the end of apartheid 25 years ago, is tipped to win the election in May despite ... SAfrica's Ramaphosa gives speech at ANC manifesto launch 1ST IMAGES of South Africa's Cyril Ramaphosa's speech at the launch of his party's 2019 election manifesto. The African National Congress (ANC), which has ruled since the end of apartheid 25 years ago, is tipped to win the election in May despite ... South Africa's ex-president just signed a record deal Former president Jacob Zuma, who is implicated in a major corruption scandal, has been given a taxpayer-funded record deal. S Africa 'captured by corrupt elements' South Africa's President Zuma feels "anxious" about his future, says ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. WATCH: 'Pay back the money' - MP's jeer at EFF's Floyd Shivambu in ironic turn of events EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu found himself on the receiving end of MP's jeering in Parliament on Tuesday, when he was heckled to "pay back the money" during a debate on the VBS Mutual Bank scandal. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma case postponed, Jacob Zuma, BLF show support Duduzane Zuma appeared briefly in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Friday. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma's culpable homicide trial postponed to March The culpable homicide case against Duduzane Zuma was postponed to March 26 in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday. ANC launches election manifesto South Africa's ruling ANC party launches its election campaign on Saturday ahead of polls in May that it is tipped to win despite recently falling support, internal divisions and a sluggish economy. On Friday, party members including President Cyr... WATCH: Ramaphosa calls on private sector to assist with the fight against corruption Corruption has become a big issue that has to be addressed by the whole nation, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Thursday. WATCH: 'It's me, former president Jacob Zuma' - Zuma joins social media Former president Jacob Zuma says he has decided to "move with times" and join various social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. PARODY: Jacob Zuma sings Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word The closest SA may get to an apology from Jacob Zuma, is this parody of the president singing Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word. Vedanta will invest Rs 8500 Cr more in South Africa Sources tell BTVI that London-based Vedanta will invest Rs 8500 crore more in South Africa. BTVI has also learnt that Vedanta chairman Anil Agarwal, who was part of the South African President Cyril Ramaphosa’s delegation for India’s Republic Day ... WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.