Tammy Petersen (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The search for the body of a 9-year-old girl presumed to have drowned in the Umlazi River will continue on Saturday, KwaZulu Natal police have said. The operation commenced on Friday after the girl was swept away in the Umlazi River. Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane said four children had been playing in the river on Friday when they got into difficulty. Read: Girl, 9, swept away while swimming with friends in Durban river “Three managed to come out but [the] fourth one drowned. Police attempted to search for her but could not find her [yet],” Zwane said. Rescue Care Paramedics in a statement on Friday confirmed that they, along with police and metro search and rescue teams as well as the Durban fire department had reported to Umlazi H section to search for the girl. Police divers and dogs had also assisted in the search. WATCH: Two men who saved man from drowning on beach on New Year's Day say they aren't heroes Two young men put their own lives at risk to save a stranger from drowning on a Western Cape beach on New Year's Day. 
When Dewald van der Westhuizen (22)  and Hannes Swart (22) noticed a man in trouble, they swam to his aid, without thinking twice. WATCH: Bakkie goes swimming while trying to pull boat out of the water in Cape Town A man who was pulling a boat out of the water at the Oceana Power Boat Club in Granger Bay, Cape Town, got more than he bargained for at the weekend when his vehicle also had to be towed out of the water. Where to find the world's most crystal-clear water paradise spots Love island life? Here's where to find the world's bluest, blue waters. WATCH: Beached whale was 'suffering, in process of dying' "We may never know why the animal was stranded," Lieze Swart of the Department of Environmental Affairs (Oceans and Coasts) told News24, after an 11m sub-adult Humpback whale beached at Yzerfontein earlier this week.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.