Tammy Petersen University of Cape Town vice-chancellor Professor Mamokgethi Phakeng. (Esa Alexander, Gallo Images, Sunday Times, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories University of Cape Town Vice Chancellor Mamokgethi Phakeng has maintained that she does not require any extra security measures, after she was threatened on Tuesday while walking to her office on campus. UCT spokesperson Elijah Moholola on Wednesday described the incident as "deeply concerning", but would not elaborate on the nature of the threat. "The incident was immediately escalated to the university’s Campus Protection Services and is being investigated. UCT condemns this incident, as we would any safety and security incident involving staff or students on our campuses," Moholola said. Also read: Charges laid after protesters threaten UCT security officers Phakeng had reiterated that she did not require any extra security measures for herself, Moholola continued. "UCT, through CPS, has measures in place to ensure the safety of all staff and students on campus. These include uniformed staff patrolling the campus, and the appropriate equipment installed to enhance security." CPS operates around the clock and worked with neighbouring police stations to request necessary resources to ensure staff and students can enter and exit its campuses safely, Moholola said. After numerous tweets expressing concern, Phakeng responded that she was "fine and continuing as if nothing ever happened".  My heart is beating fast, i am sweating &angry! Thanks to the person who threatened me this morning as I was walking from my car to my office. I refuse to waste UCT money on a driver or bodyguard. Go ahead & do what you want. ??????NB: It’s not a white person.    WATCH: Queuing won't guarantee university admission The University of Johannesburg is urging prospective students to register online Instead of queuing on campus. WATCH: Two police officers charged with murder of TUT student granted bail Two police officers were granted bail at the Soshanguve Magistrates Court on Tuesday. WATCH: TUT students march to the police ministry over student death Chaos erupted on Wednesday as around 300 students marched through the Pretoria CBD protesting over the death of a student who was allegedly shot by police last week. WATCH: University of Limpopo, South Africa, students walk out of philosophy test University of Limpopo students this week walked out of an Educational Philosophy test.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.