YOU Digital PHOTO: Instagram/@aquamike23 Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Pictures of a rare albino baby turtle that was born with its heart outside of its body has captured the hearts of the internet. The albino pink belly turtle was born with its little heart beating outside its shell. Although there is no name for the potentially life-threatening genetic defect in veterinary medicine, this condition is called ectopia cordis in humans, People reports The condition is thought to be the result of chromosomal abnormalities. The baby turtle, named Hope, has managed to defy the odds and survived. Hope's owner, 29-year-old Mike Aquilina, from New Jersey in the US, says he looks after the tiny turtle at home, taking great care to make sure she has the happiest life possible. Mike documents Hope's progress on his Instagram account. A friend of Mike's gave Hope to him because he believed Mike has the passion and experience to care for the little special-needs turtle properly, FOX News reports "Hope has impacted my life in so many ways it actually makes me emotional," Mike told Daily Mail. "She's so small and so fragile, the most delicate thing . . . But she's fearless. "People can see that and she's got so many people rooting for her around the world. She's spreading hope while also giving me hope. Hope has changed my life for the better in such a short amount of time." Hope arrived at Mike's home in November 2018 and continues to grow stronger with each passing day. Everybody’s favorite #turtle ?? A post shared by  Aquamike (@aquamike23) on Dec 9, 2018 at 3:54pm PST  Few things in life unite us more than animals ?? Day 25, 2nd time handling her since I got her, she’s gained some weight and I can see some growth rings on her carapace ???? swipe for some poor quality “detailed” pictures ?? #turtle #reptile #animal #animals #pets #nature #life #cute #love A post shared by  Aquamike (@aquamike23) on Dec 2, 2018 at 8:35pm PST  He told news outlets that he uses "common sense" and provides extra care for Hope, including keeping her water "extra clean" and handling her as little as possible. "The goal is to keep her deformity clean and her immune system strong. I can't risk another turtle accidentally puncturing her heart." Sources: FOX News, Daily Mail, People    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.