Correspondent WATCH: #Resurrection challenge - South Africans mock 'resurrection miracle' pastor South Africans mock 'resurrection' pastor. The 'resurrection' by pastor Alph Lukau. (Screengrab/Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The church where a man was supposedly "resurrected" by a pastor is now backtracking on the "miracle", Sowetan reports. A video of pastor Alph Lukau of Alleluia International Ministries church in Kramerville, Sandton, performing the "resurrection" has gone viral over the past few days. In the video, a Kings and Queens Real Funerals hearse can be seen transporting a coffin into the church where Lukau and congregants pray before the man rises from the coffin, breathing heavily in what is apparently staged to be a miraculous resurrection. The "dead" man reportedly died on Friday after an illness. According to Sowetan, Lukau's church now claims that the "dead" man was actually "already alive" when his "body" got to the premises and that Lukau had only "completed a miracle that God had already started". Funeral homes distance themselves This U-turn comes in the wake of funeral parlour Kings and Queens Real Funerals distancing itself from what transpired at the church at a media briefing, News24 reported. The "miracle" has also been the subject of much ridicule on social media.  This is supposedly the "dead" man whom Alph Lukau resurrected from the dead.Just look at him.Such fraud must be punishable! pic.twitter.com/HY5AZSEBCp  The parlour claimed to have been duped into taking part in the act and reported the matter to the police on Monday, Sowetan reported. News24 reported on Monday that Kings and Queens, along with two other funeral parlours, claimed the incident was part of a scheme that allegedly involved the man's family. "The funeral parlours herein were used individually and separately through various forms of misrepresentations to suit a particular outcome which at the time was unknown to the funeral parlours," Kings and Queens' advocate Prince Mafu said in a joint statement. Mafu said the family and the church had approached Kingdom Blue for the purposes of acquiring a coffin and used Black Phoenix stickers to brand their private vehicle when they tried to secure Kings and Queens' services to transport the body to "the rural area". "It is with regret that the outcome of such a plot/scheme has adversely affected our reputation as service providers, our valued clients and the general public," he added. "We wish to reiterate and assure the nation that we remain professional and legitimate in our operations and the events of the weekend have been reported to Jeppe police station for further investigations and our legal team is in the process of handling the matter appropriately," Mafu said. The funeral parlours have apologised for the inconvenience the incident may have caused to its clients and said they were working hard to restore their image. 'He was already alive' Mafu said none of the three parlours stored the man's body and added that they were unaware of the church service which later took place. Sowetan reported on Tuesday that, amid mounting pressure, church leaders revised their version of events on Monday, claiming that the man identified as Elliot in the video had arrived alive inside a coffin at the church gate. The church's pastor Rochelle Kombou told Sowetan on Monday that the church was "not interested in responding to critics" who accused them of misleading the masses as they were "preoccupied with doing God's work". Kings and Queens manager in Polokwane, Vivien Mponda, told Sowetan that the hearse had been hired by the church for R2 000.  According to the Funeral Palour Alph lukau’s people only hired the hearse, the body and coffin were collected somewhere else. The Funeral Palour is very pissed about his name being dragged in this Stunt. The Palour is next to Ellis Park Stadium pic.twitter.com/xZNDdZMySY  Alph Lukau is a fraud. I’ve worked at a morgue. The mouth gets stitched and sealed, the eyes get glued and there’s a special lotion for the face. That dead guy looks like he walked out a spa ?? I’m reporting Alph as spam.  While Pastor Alph Lukau is busy talking, I encourage to concentrate on the mouth of the guy in the coffin then you will decide if he was dead or not. Maybe this guy can bring back the like of Nelson Mandela, Hector Peterson, Hugh Masekela, Steve Biko, OR Tambo and others. pic.twitter.com/lFoNsM0grO  Bushiri vs Alph Lukau...Who is the BEST "MIRACLE MAKER? :) pic.twitter.com/kIPaXZl03Q  Meanwhile in the garden of Eden #ResurrectionChallenge pic.twitter.com/sEy9z0Tmxr  Challenge acceptedY'all are gon' burn on earth ????????#ResurrectionChallenge pic.twitter.com/6Sqcww0zgM  #ResurrectionChallenge My alarm just resurrect me to wake up pic.twitter.com/SwMk8homHY   WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. WATCH: Peter Storey on how Rivonia Trial prisoners on Robben Island changed him Challenging apartheid wherever he could, Bishop Peter Storey led the Methodist Church of Southern Africa into what many white congregants saw as uncomfortable 'political' territory. His new book, I Beg to Differ, spans his sorrow and joys. WATCH: Chinese national shot and wounded, cash stolen in Johannesburg A Chinese national was shot and wounded and cash stolen out of his vehicle when several armed robbers pounced on his car south of Johannesburg yesterday. WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. WATCH: No injuries or fatalities in South African factory fire Johannesburg emergency services spent hours trying to contain a fire that broke out in a glue and paper factory in Kya Sands, Johannesburg, on Wednesday morning. WATCH: This 22-year-old accounting student is changing healthcare in his community When Thembekile Mahintsho's father died in 2015, the 22-year-old accounting student became determined to bring accessible healthcare to his community in Joe Slovo Park, Cape Town. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. WATCH: Shady character steals designer sunglasses A thief with sticky fingers was able to steal two pairs of designer sunglasses from an optical store in Johannesburg last Friday. WATCH: Pedestrian mowed down by taxi driving in the wrong lane A taxi driving on the wrong side of the road knocked over a pedestrian in morning traffic in Sharonlea, Johannesburg on Monday. WATCH: White people failed the TRC by not attending - Peter Storey Challenging apartheid wherever he could, Bishop Peter Storey led the Methodist Church of Southern Africa into what many white congregants saw as uncomfortable 'political' territory. His new book, I Beg to Differ, spans his sorrow and joys. WATCH: New footage shows armed men fleeing after Joburg M1 shootout New footage has emerged giving further insight into the shooting on Johannesburg's M1 on Monday. WATCH: President Cyril Ramaphosa unveils Nelson Mandela statue at UN headquarters President Cyril Ramaphosa has unveiled a life-sized statue of late president Nelson Mandela at the United Nations (UN) headquarters in New York, as South Africa celebrates Heritage Day on Monday. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. 'Our relationship went beyond politics' - Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest Mandela memories Zulu Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest memories of Nelson Mandela, on the fifth anniversary of Nelson Mandela's death. WATCH: 'Edna Molewa's life was one of sacrifice, selflessness and service'  - Cyril Ramaphosa An official funeral service for the late Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa was held in Pretoria on Saturday.

President Cyril Ramaphosa delivered the eulogy at the Tshwane Events Centre.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.