Alex Mitchley WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. (Screengrab of the incident) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The pupil involved in a physical altercation with a teacher at Sans Souci Girls High School in Cape Town is facing five charges in her disciplinary hearing. Yolisa Nocanda from the Chamber of Legal Students, which is representing the teenager, told News24 said that the disciplinary hearing has been set down for February 14. The child faces numerous charges following the physical altercation in the classroom captured on video which has since gone viral. Both the learner and the teacher have been suspended. According to Nocanda, the charges are intimidation by verbal and psychical threat intended to harm a person; ignoring or failing to carry out specific instructions; actions which bring the school’s name into disrepute; violating the rights of other learners to receive education by disrupting classes, preventing teachers from teaching; and violating the rights of the teacher to carry out their task to the detriment of the school, staff, teacher and fellow learners. Mother reacts Reacting to the pending charges, the mother of the learner, whose name is known to News24, said she is currently "at peace" and knows her child will get through this ordeal. "I don’t know what the outcomes will be but I trust God in everything," she told News24. She added that when she first watched the video, she paid special attention to understand where the argument started and how it escalated. "The body language from the teacher told me a story. I saw the body language of the teacher. I didn’t see my daughter get up, I didn’t see her raise her voice." #SansSouci: Teacher and pupil involved in physical altercation suspended The mother conceded that the right thing to do would have been to leave the classroom when the teacher told the learner to get out. "But how do you leave your property [the cellphone] behind," she asked. "My child then pushed past the teacher and reached out to grab her phone." She added that she was highly upset when she saw the teacher smack her child through the face and grab her by her shirt. On whether the pupil assaulted the teacher when she pushed the desk into the teacher's legs, the mother said that her child may have pushed the desk too hard, but asked where else was she supposed to have moved it. "My daughter was angry. She can be angry, I don’t know how I would retaliated. I don’t know how others would be in that position." The mother maintains that there was provocation on the teacher's part from the start of the argument. The video The video clip, which appeared to have been recorded by another pupil, showed an apparent verbal quarrel over a book which soon turned physical. In the clip the teacher can be heard asking the learner where her book is, and the girl replies that she doesn't have one. The teacher has words with her about this and grabs her cell phone, which the child has in her hand. The teacher and the learner keep exchanging words until the teacher returns the girl's phone before taking it back, threatening to throw it. WATCH: Teacher at top Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl "Throw it ma'am. Make me," the girl says, and the teacher pulls her table back, before pushing it back into place. The teacher insists that the learner leave the classroom, and the girl pushes her table into the teacher's legs and gets up, apparently reaching for her cell phone. The teacher slaps the pupil in the face , before grabbing her by the front of her shirt. The girl grabs the the teacher's arm and tells her, "You hit me!" and the teacher replies that she pushed and swore at her. Assault charges In addition to the disciplinary hearings by the school against the teacher and learner, criminal cases of assault have also been laid with police by both involved parties. WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. South Korea - the price of success South Korea's education system is notorious for the pressure it places on school students. Often they have little time for hobbies or friends. One start-up wants to make learning more fun. Ed Sheeran slams music funding cuts Ed Sheeran has slammed cuts to music education and revealed he was "benefited hugely" from the music education provided at his state school. Silicon Valley - Can Games Create an Education Fit for the Future? Imagine a school where playing video games is encouraged during classes and may even replace exams. A new educational programme uses SimCity to test children on vital problem-solving skills. Movie Report: Red Sparrow In the mystery thriller 'Red Sparrow', we follow Jennifer Lawrence as a Russian ballerina who gets recruited into 'Sparrow School'. This isn't your typical 'nose in the books' education though. Instead, the girls learn to use their bodies as weapons. Students meet extremists in 'poli-rad' class Teachers at an Ohio school invite members of America's political extremes into the classroom to engage with students. The goal is to teach students to question unfamiliar ideas with respect while building critical thinking skills. Los Angeles teachers OK contract, will end strike Los Angeles teachers have approved a contract deal between their union and school officials, ending a six-day strike in the nation's second-largest district. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. School bus topples on icy Missouri road Surveillance video captured a school bus toppling over on an icy road in Kansas City. Passengers were able to exit safely through the rear door. LA teachers go on strike over wages, class size Tens of thousands of Los Angeles teachers went on strike Monday after contentious contract negotiations failed in the nation's second-largest school district. WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. Trending: Cardi B confirms pregnancy on 'Saturday Night Live', Russell Crowe's divorce auction nets In case you missed it, here's what's trending right now: Cardi B confirms pregnancy during performance on 'Saturday Night Live', Russell Crowe makes $3.7 million in his 'Art of Divorce' auction, and Drake recruits the likes of Zoe Saldana. Meet the girl whose teacher is a radio Could broadcasting school lessons solve Africa's education crisis? The BBC spoke to a pupil in the Democratic Republic of Congo who is learning through the radio. Ariana Grande's music video director is in awe of her strength The visionary behind Ariana Grande’s best known music videos has shared has she is in awe of the pop star’s strength. Chrissy Teigen's jealousy-fuelled breakdown on John Legend music video shoot Chrissy Teigen once had a "jealousy fuelled meltdown" on the set of one of John Legend's music videos, after she thought he was flirting with one of the actresses. Bomb threat empties Sandy Hook on anniversary A bomb threat forced the evacuation of the Sandy Hook Elementary School on Friday, a day of memorial services and moments of silence to mark the sixth anniversary of the massacre of 20 first-graders and six educators. Bulgaria adopts apprenticeships in scramble for workers In addition to traditional subjects taught at school, students in Bulgaria are learning practical skills such as cooking and factory work to make them more employable. With the fastest-falling population in the world, Bulgaria is increasingly turn... 'Girls Like You' is Youtube Rewind's Top UK Music Video YouTube has revealed that the top music video in the UK is 'Girls Like You' by Maroon 5 and Cardi B. Why is Turkey becoming a hub for higher education? Turkey is becoming a hub for higher education for students from across the world. But what is driving the change? #Higher #Education #Turkey US schools walk out over gun violence Students were demanding gun legislation that promotes school safety, 19 years since the Columbine massacre. Will Men and Machines Merge? Will we one day be able to access all of human knowledge directly from a chip implanted into our brains? Millie Bobby Brown shames cyber bullies at MTV Awards Stranger Things' Millie Bobby Brown tackled online bullies face on as she sent a video message to the 2018 MTV Movie & TV Awards to accept the gong for Best Performance in a Show. Liz Wessel of WayUp Knows How Millenials Work WayUp's Liz Wessel talks to Mike Butcher about her desire to make an impact, what millenials want, and what we can learn from them. Teens on how social media could affect well-being of students The Toronto District School Board says social media use is one area of concern as new data indicates a decline in students’ well-being. One high schooler says turning off phone notifications is one way he maintains “balance.” Drake still texts his high school teacher Drake has revealed he still texts his high school teacher - despite dropping out of school to pursue his career - as she congratulated him for his recent chart success. Los Angeles teachers end week-long strike The union for more than 30,000 striking Los Angeles teachers clinched a tentative contract deal with the second-largest U.S. school district on Tuesday, paving the way for classes to resume for nearly half a million students after a week-long walkout Thousands of Los Angeles teachers striking Los Angeles teachers went on strike Monday after talks failed in the nation's second largest school disctrict. Schools remain open and the district superintendent said 'students are safe and learning'. Tentative deal reached to end LA teachers strike A tentative deal was reached Tuesday between Los Angeles school officials and the teachers union that will allow educators to return to classrooms after a six-day strike against the nation's second-largest district, officials said. Doug Ford won’t commit to future of full-day kindergarten Ontario’s premier won’t guarantee that full-day kindergarten will last beyond the next school year. Education consultations by Doug Ford’s government are also looking at possibly removing class-size caps for primary grades. French police arrest hundreds of students across the country French students have been blocking access to high schools across France in protest of President Emmanuel Macron's education reforms. #France #Franceprotests #giletsjaunes #Macron Marseille high school students clash with police Thousands of high school students take to the streets in Marseille, as more and more join students protest against education reforms affecting university admission. Meet the teacher who wears school uniform Alex Maina Kariuki is a school principal with a difference. He insists on wearing the same school uniform as his students. David Oakes: Schools should teach lesser known Shakespeare plays Victoria star David Oakes has said he would like to see the lesser known Shakespeare plays taught in schools.

The actor, best known for playing Prince Ernest in the ITV period drama, said an attempt should be made to broaden people's horizons, ra... Broncos president: Finding 'new normal' critical for Humboldt Students returned to school in Humboldt, Saskatchewan, on Tuesday following Friday's bus crash that killed 15 people. The director of education for Greater Saskatoon Catholic Schools says the students were "happy to be together." The anger propelling teachers into politics Over the past few months, massive teacher protests have shut down schools across the country. Now, the fight for education funding is prompting some to run for office. Pakistan's solar-powered schools for the underprivileged A 'SLUM' school run by Rohayl Varind is Pakistan's first solar night school. Teacher strike delayed in Los Angeles The teacher union representing 35,000 Los Angeles members is postponing the start of a strike till next Monday. They had planned to strike Thursday, but the possibility of a court-ordered delay of the strike prompted the union move. Powerlifting school teacher finds success at 50 Lucille Rowan is a weightlifter who won Commonwealth silver at powerlifting a year after first picking up a weight aged almost 50. Why Kenyan school children say 'no', loudly School girls and boys in Kenyan schools are being taught self defence and how to report sexual and physical attacks. Dresden teacher wary of far-right AfD online platform A Dresden teacher recalls what life was like under communism. That's why the far-right AfD party's new online platform reminds her of the days when students could denounce teachers. Parents sue over district’s policy to arm teachers Parents filed a lawsuit to block a Pennsylvania school district from allowing teachers to carry guns in school, the latest in a debate playing out in many states over whether it's wise to arm educators to protect students from mass shooters. Trump's safety panel weighs in on arming teachers President Donald Trump's school safety commission said it should be left to states and schools to decide whether to arm teachers, but Education Secretary Betsy DeVos said she urges schools to "seriously consider" the option. In war-torn Yemen, some students take classes under the tree Displaced children in Yemen find no room in overcrowded schools in Abs, forcing teachers to run lessons in makeshift classrooms where they are exposed to sunlight and insects. Cardi B visits former elementary school Cardi B just shocked and surprised teachers and students at her old elementary school when she paid them a visit! Why classrooms are starting to resemble arcades A vast array of apps, websites and software in schools today borrow elements from video games to help teachers connect with students living technology-infused lives. Raqqa's schools resemble battlegrounds More than a year since the United States and its allies defeated Islamic State in the Syrian city of Raqqa, many of its schools still resemble battlegrounds that are unfit for purpose. In Pakistan public education suffocates under surging population At the Tanjai Cheena school in northwest Pakistan students squeeze into makeshift classrooms where plastic tarps serve as walls and electricity is sparse, as a surging population overstretches the country's fragile education system. Arizona educator becomes state teacher boss Spurred on by teacher protests, scores of teachers ran for office this fall, with many of them winning. They include Kathy Hoffman, who was sworn in Monday as Arizona's new Superintendent of Public Instruction. Teaching the World with VIPKID's Cindy Mi VIPKID's Cindy Mi talks to Megan Rose Dickey about the importance of personalized learning, recruiting and retaining teachers, and changes to the edtech landscape.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.