Canny Maphanga Former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor. (Conrad Bornman, Gallo Images, Rapport, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories If it was decided that Vytjie Mentor's evidence before the state capture commission of inquiry was inadmissible, what would her response be? This was the question which commission chairperson, Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, asked Mentor on Tuesday. "One of the things that maybe someone will say is South African Airways (SAA ) records were put up and you had issues, Home Affairs records were put up and you had issues with them, cellphone records are put up and you have issues with them. "Someone might say you have [an] issue with all the records and I therefore should not accept your version of events, what would you say to that?" Zondo asked. In response, Mentor suggested that there was a possibility that records may have been tampered with. "A lot of time has lapsed since I went public about state capture. A lot of time has lapsed before this commission could even see the light of day. "It is possible that that length of time gave people time to interfere with records," she claimed. ALSO READ: Mentor insists flight details are accurate despite discrepancies She also called for a forensic investigation into the records, but Zondo did not comment on her request. Zondo's question arose from the fact that Mentor took issue with the cellphone records of Lakela Kaunda during cross-examination. Kaunda served as the chief of staff and a spokesperson during Jacob Zuma's term as president. She alleged that Kaunda phoned her on a Sunday evening before she travelled to Johannesburg from Cape Town in 2010 to arrange for her to meet Zuma. From the meeting, she was transported to the Gupta home in Saxonwold, where she was allegedly offered a ministerial position. Advocate Henry Cowley, who represents Kaunda, highlighted that the cellphone records of October 2010 do not show communication to any of Mentor's numbers. "How does Kaunda have her records when a cellphone provider only keeps five years' worth of communication. So how did she get hers? "I cannot attest to the veracity of these records because they are not from the service provider but from Kaunda herself," Mentor said in response. READ: State capture inquiry: Mentor insists flight details are accurate despite discrepancies Mentor maintained that she communicated with Kaunda that Sunday evening. "I am very clear that Miss Kaunda spoke to me that night," she insisted. Kaunda's records were not the only ones she took issue with. Earlier on Tuesday, she requested that an independent expert be brought in to look at SAA and Department of Home Affairs records. But Zondo explained: "It is not clear to me why we would need anybody else to testify on SAA records because we are looking at SAA records." Mentor's testimony ended on Tuesday afternoon. She thanked the commission for its work. "I want to thank the chair for allowing me to blow the whistle on state capture, as much as I have been aggrieved in the manner in which I felt I was being interrogated. I think this is a very good process and I want to encourage South Africans to come forward," she said. The commission is expected to resume on Thursday with the testimony of former ANC MP Dennis Bloem. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry - Agrizzi to implicate more officials Former Bosasa chief operating officer Angelo Agrizzi will be back on the witness stand for a fifth day and more officials are expected to be implicated in his testimony. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan wraps up his testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day3 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan wrapped up his testimony at the judicial inquiry into state capture sitting in Johannesburg on Wednesday. Watch. Gupta brother threatened to kill Mcebisi Jonas if he spoke about secret meeting #StateCaptureInquiry: Former deputy Minister of Finance Mcebisi Jonas told the state capture commission of inquiry that one of the Gupta brothers threatened to kill him if he revealed details of the meeting where he was offered a bribe. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan appears before #StateCaptureInquiry (Day1 / Part2) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony on Monday at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg. WATCH LIVE: Julius Malema addresses the crowd outside #StateCaptureInquiry EFF leader Julius Malema addressed the crowd outside the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture where Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan was testifying. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan wraps up his testimony at #StateCaptureInquiry (Day3 / Part1) Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan wrapped up his testimony at the judicial inquiry into state capture sitting in Johannesburg on Wednesday. Watch.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.