Canny Maphanga Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Gauteng education MEC Panyaza Lesufi's meeting with the Representative Council of Learners (RCL) has been postponed due to the collapse of the auditorium rooftop at Rhema Bible Church in Johannesburg. "This is to confirm that a rooftop of the auditorium at the Rhema Bible Church which was supposed to be hosting a meeting of RCL with the MEC of Education today has collapsed and as such we are postponing the meeting until further notice," department spokesperson Steve Mabona said in a statement on Saturday. This follows heavy rains in the area. Lesufi was scheduled to engage with RCL learners on the issue of bullying in schools with a specific focus on cyberbullying. "Among others we were going to integrate them through our processes and make sure that they understand our legislation that is guiding them on how to operate in our space," Mabona added. The meeting was also aimed at preparing the learners in taking their rightful roles in the governance of the school the best interests of all learners. The GDE apologises for the inconvenience caused and urges all those heading to the venue to refrain as "the meeting will not be going ahead". A date for the meeting will be announced at a later stage. The meeting comes after another incident of bullying is believed to be at the centre of what led a 13-year-old Doornpoort Primary School pupil in Pretoria to commit suicide. News24 reported on Tuesday that the parents of the Grade 7 pupil found her body in her bedroom on Monday. The Sinoville Crisis Centre, which deals with matters affecting young children and teenagers, asked that the child's identity not be disclosed. According to the centre, the teen sent her friend an image of herself, which was distributed among pupils on various WhatsApp groups. The pupils mocked and shamed her. Councillors were deployed to the school and preliminary investigations were underway. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to
our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Holy Cross primary in Cape Town on fire Firefighters were called out to Holy Cross RC Primary School in the Cape Town CBD after plumes of smoke were seen emanating from the premises. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. WATCH: Hundreds gather for emotional night vigil at Hoërskool Driehoek Hundreds of people gathered at Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark for an emotional night vigil, after a concrete slab collapsed at the school, killing three children and seriously injuring 25 others. WATCH: SA Human Rights Commission reacts to the Hoërskool Driehoek tragedy The SA Human Rights Commission will launch a probe into a walkway collapse at a high school in Vanderbijlpark, that killed four children last week. WATCH: Khayelitsha school bids to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place Chairperson of Enkanini Primary's School Governing Body Andile Lili shows what the school is doing in a bid to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place at the school in Khayelitsha WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral. WATCH: Cape pupil awarded for matriculating after surviving deadly fire Lance Minnies came close to losing his life in a deadly 2016 fire and almost gave up on his studies when he recovered. But it was the hope for a better future and the support of caring people at his school that pulled him through. WATCH: Grade 1 pupil gets ready for big school Starting Grade 1 is a big step for little ones. For Luca (6), getting ready for school took quite some time on Wednesday morning, but he soon got into the swing of things. From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg. WATCH: This 30-year-old family business is a school hotspot for Joburg families Gauteng schools open on Wednesday and parents are on the hunt for affordable school uniforms. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.