Staff Reporter Pippa Green Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Press Council of South Africa has announced the appointment of Pippa Green as the new Press Ombud. Green will take over from Johan Retief, who resigned after almost a decade in the post. She will assume office on April 1. Green is a decorated journalist who has worked at the Cape Argus, The Sunday Independent, the South African Broadcasting Corporation and as a part-time editor at Eyewitness News. She is also the author of Choice, not Fate: The Life and Times of Trevor Manuel. Read: Press ombudsman Johan Retief resigns In a statement released by the council, Justice Yvonne Mokgoro - who was the chairperson of the appointment panel - said Green's standing in the industry, her "extensive" experience and commitment to freedom of expression, media ethics and journalistic standards would "maintain the confidence of both the industry and the public in the credibility and authority of the Press Ombud". Council chairperson Judge Phillip Levinsohn welcomed Green's appointment. "She is eminently qualified to do this job. It is a great pleasure to welcome her into the Press Council family." Levinsohn also thanked Retief for his "significant contribution" to the body. "His expertise, erudition and notably brilliant adjudication and application of the Press Code, when confronted with difficult issues, will be missed," he said. The Press Ombud considers complaints from the public and individuals against media houses which subscribe and adhere to the Press Code. BREAKING: #SouthAfrica has a new #PressOmbud Congrats @green_pippa who replaces #JohanRetief who has left the @PressCouncil_SA after a decade. pic.twitter.com/np6tq381FC  ANALYSIS: Ramaphosa appoints advocate Shamila Batohi as new NPA boss President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced advocate Shamila Batohi as the new head of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). Lawson Naidoo, joins News24 opinions editor Alet Janse van Rensburg and News24 editor-in-chief in studio for analysis. WATCH: Dan Plato elected as Cape Town mayor Dan Plato has been elected as Cape Town's new executive mayor during a special council sitting on Tuesday. 'It's time for a new political order' - De Lille announces new political party Former Cape Town mayor and DA member Patricia de Lille says she is ready to serve her country under a new political movement.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.