Jenni Evans Award-winning mushroom farmer Peter Nyathi. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Lerato Senakhomo received 500 hectares of land from the government and is now rearing goats, sheep and growing vegetables in Nigel, in the east of Gauteng. Watch.WATCH Deciding to resign from your job and start your own business is a terrifying prospect for many, but for award-winning mushroom farmer Peter Nyathi the leap of faith is paying off not only for him, but also his staff. The 53-year-old agricultural economist's career was on the rise – having gone from working in the agricultural ministry in Zimbabwe, to marketing, administration and finance for big-name insurance companies in South Africa. It was while working at Denny Mushrooms that he decided that mushroom growing was fascinating. "There is a lot of science in mushroom growing. In normal agriculture you don't find that kind of challenge," he said. With his sights always on either being in a top position, or owning his own company, he had risen fast, but describing himself as a planner, he needed more certainty about his future at the company. Read: From farm worker to award-winning farmer He spoke to his boss about how far he would go in the company, and his boss could not say for certain. "So I said to him, I'm going to take my own future into my own hands," said Nyathi. When he told his wife, Bridget, he would do it alone, she was "a little bit scared". "She kept her job," he chuckles, as he explained that the next step was to get financing. Small supplier of the year It took three and a half years of hustling for backing, planning and finding just the right location in the Magaliesberg region and his company, Tropical Mushrooms, was born. Since then, the company has grown and now has 150 staffers producing 800 tons of mushrooms a year "from Sunday to Sunday". Speaking by cellphone while waiting for a flight after a business meeting, he explained that mushrooms are not like other agricultural products which have a resting period, so he and the 150 staffers push themselves every day to meet orders. "Luckily I have a lot of energy," he says. Pick n Pay announced this week that it had just awarded him its "small supplier of the year" title for 2019 in its annual awards under its Enterprise and Supplier Development (ESD) programme. The programme provides mentorship and support from corporate experts and helps accelerate small suppliers into their network. Employee trust established Suzanne Ackerman-Berman, transformation director at Pick n Pay, said in a statement that entrepreneurs need a boost. "In Peter's case, it was financial. He knew his business well, but needed financial support to expand his business to build a sustainable future. Through our commitment to fulfil orders, he secured the funding he needed to grow," she said. Also read: How 24-year-old Mbalentle Sipengane became a successful farmer The retailer said that since joining its ESD programme in 2006, Nyathi has more than doubled his 18.9ha farm's capacity. He also opened an employee trust and last year, for the first time, the company shared R1m before tax with 60 qualifying beneficiaries of the trust. The employee trust was started with early grant funding through the Department of Agriculture's Land Redistribution for Agricultural Development programme. Nyathi said that he also supplies other large retailers, including Shoprite and Food Lover's Market, and is planning on expanding again later this year, and to hire another 40 people. Asked whether he actually likes mushrooms, he laughs and says he does have intolerance for some food but, fortunately, not mushrooms. He eats them stewed, fried or just raw. "I love them," he says.  WATCH: This race horse just sold for a cool R4 million This year's top seller at the Cape Premier Yearling Sale was an unnamed filly that sold for R4 million from the Klawervlei Stud farm located in Breede River outside Bonnievale, Western Cape. WATCH: A poor man can come to this sale... and buy a champion Former golfer and stud farm owner Gary Player says race horse ownership is more accessible than many may realise. We caught up with the legendary sportsman at the 2019 Cape Premier Yearling Sale in Cape Town. Watch. WATCH: R 58K donation helps 69-year-old granny build her dream home A 69-year-old grandmother from Willowfountain in Pietermaritzburg will see her longstanding dream of rebuilding her home come true, after her employers crowdsourced almost R60 000 towards renovations. 'The fire was higher than the roof here'- Hermanus farmer "Camphill, you've got 30 minutes until that fire is on you." These were the chilling words that came through as a Hermanus farm community, housing 54 intellectually disabled patients, was forced to evacuate. WATCH: World's largest 3D printer lives in South Africa South Africa is home to the world's largest 3D printer. The printer is housed at the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) at the National Laser Centre in Pretoria, Gauteng. It is set to revolutionise the aerospace industry. WATCH. WATCH: Here's how a Ford Ranger Raptor is built Kyle Kock recently visited Ford's Silverton plant in Pretoria to find out first hand how a Ranger Raptor is built and also lending a hand in the build process.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.