Sarah Evans Former North West premier Supra Mahumapelo is seen during the funeral service of struggle icon Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. (Frennie Shivambu, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Ousted North West ANC chairperson Supra Mahumapelo wants a "political solution" to the impasse in the province, the Sunday Times reported. This follows two court victories by Mahumapelo, the last one ordering the ANC to immediately reinstate him. A previous court victory ordered that the disbanded North West Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) should be reinstated. Complicating matters, however, is that the PEC's term expired last week. In August last year, following violent protests against Mahumapelo's provincial government and the premier himself, the ANC's national executive committee (NEC) disbanded the PEC and removed Mahumapelo. North West premier Job Mokgoro was appointed as interim convener of the province, News24 reported. On February 13, the North Gauteng High Court ruled in favour of Mahumapelo and four others, who wanted an urgent order reinstating the former chairperson, News24 reported. Mahumapelo argued in court last year that the NEC acted unlawfully when it disbanded the PEC. News24 revealed on Friday that a "rapid response team" put together by the NEC to deal with the North West problem will table four proposals for the NEC to consider. One of these is the proposal to establish a new task team made up of equal numbers of each pro-and-anti-Mahumapelo factions. Another proposal is to allow the PEC to carry on but with 17 more members co-opted from the interim structure. According to the Sunday Times, Mahumapelo and the members of his disbanded PEC had a meeting with ANC deputy secretary general Jesse Duarte, to ask for a political solution. They reportedly want the Provincial Task Team (PTT) put in place in the province to be disbanded, and for an interim structure to be put in place that would comprise 15 members from either faction. No decisions were apparently taken at the meeting but the issue will reportedly be discussed at a meeting of the ANC's national executive committee on Sunday. Mahumapelo was conspicuously absent from the North West state of the province last week, despite his court victory, according to IOL. This was reportedly despite the fact that all former premiers were invited to the event. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.