Cyril Blackburn (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories There was a
time when he didn’t want to live anymore. He’s not
embarrassed to admit it. After being shot in a home invasion and spending weeks
in hospital at death’s door, he was ready to give up. That was
two months ago. Now Naka Drotské (48), hooker of the legendary 1995 Springbok
rugby team, is delighted to be alive. And he’s making the most of each day. It’s been
more than 10 weeks since robbers struck at his brother Tinus’ smallholding in Kameeldrift,
Pretoria. Naka is still amazed that he’s lived to tell the tale. When YOU
spoke to him after the incident, he was much less positive about his prospects.
“Within days [after the attack] I’d lost my fighting spirit. Without fully
knowing what I was saying, I begged God to come take me.” After a
setback – he got pneumonia and sepsis and was put on a ventilator – his spirits
hit rock bottom. Unsure whether the former Bok was going to pull through,
doctors called his family to the hospital. But now
Naka is in better shape than ever, his wife, Marzanne (42), assured YOU on the
phone on Thursday. “In life
you have a choice: you can be the victim or victor. With God in our life, my
family and I are grateful to say we choose to be victors every day from now
on,” she said. Naka is
receiving physiotherapy to regain the full use of his right arm. But the wound
drain he’s had attached to him is long forgotten. So are the plaster cast,
stitches and dark moods he suffered after the attack. “The
physiotherapist is happy with Naka’s progress,” Marzanne says. “The bullet that
penetrated his arm caused a lot of damage and full recovery will take a lot of
time and effort.” Naka is
positive and facing each day with renewed courage and vigour, she says. “Six weeks on
antibiotics caused him to lose weight and he’s a bit skinny but we’re working
on it. For the most part, our lives are back to normal – yet two months ago we
didn’t imagine ever reaching this point.” Since he’s
arrived home on 6 January, Naka has also been receiving trauma counselling. But
Marzanne says neither of them have symptoms of trauma or anxiety related to the
incident. “It’s a
miracle. He has no anxiety, no nightmares, flashbacks or night-time terror. We
were warned it could return at a later stage . . . But we’re hopeful it won’t. “The time
in hospital, being connected to all those machines, was almost worse for Naka
than the actual shooting. “It really
helped to talk about it so soon after getting home. He’d tell people the story
in the greatest detail – I believe that’s what helped him heal emotionally. “Now we’ve
put it behind us. We’re just so grateful he’s alive.” Thankfully,
Naka’s sons, Allen (15) and Tristan (11), and Marzanne’s daughters, Jeazanne
(19) and Annica (15), also seemed to have been spared the effects of
post-traumatic stress. “The kids
are fine – we’re very grateful for that,” Marzanne says. “We were especially
worried the boys would be scared when they get back from America [where they’d
been visiting their mom, Liske, when the incident happened]. But they do
realise that these things happen everywhere. They know we’re lucky still to be
intact as a family.” Kameeldrift
police confirmed to YOU that no arrests have been made. The investigation
continues.     24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.