Tammy Petersen WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. The Western Cape High Court has sentenced Mortimer Saunders to two life sentences for the rape and pre-meditated murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. PHOTO: Jaco Marais Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Child rapist and killer Mortimer Saunders has been denied leave to appeal his conviction and sentence. After hearing arguments in the Western Cape High Court on Tuesday, Judge Pearl Mantame, who last year found Saunders guilty of the premeditated murder of Courtney Pieters, said she believed there was no prospect of success on appeal. Saunders confessed to the murder and to using his fingers to penetrate the 3-year-old after her death. However, he was convicted of premeditated murder and raping a minor, which both carried a prescribed minimum sentence of life in jail. WATCH: Courtney Pieters' killer gets two life sentences for her rape, murder The Western Cape High Court has sentenced Mortimer Saunders to two life sentences for the rape and murder of 3-year-old Courtney Pieters. READ: Courtney Pieters' killer gets two life sentences for her rape, murder Mantame ruled that his sentences run consecutively - not concurrently. At the start of the trial, Saunders denied that he planned the toddler's death or that he raped her while she was alive. His version was that he had given the three-year-old ant poison to make her sick before he choked her, beat her and used a towel to cover her mouth. He claimed he had done it because of "ill feelings" between him and her mother, Juanita. Saunders, a father of three, was a tenant in the house where Juanita and her family lived. His advocate Mornay Calitz argued that the State conceded its case had been circumstantial and submitted that it failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the murder had been premeditated or that Courtney had been raped before her death. READ MORE: He wanted to kill Courtney, State argues in Mortimer Saunders trial (Warning: Graphic details) Saunders claimed he bought the poison eight months prior to the murder for an ant problem in the house. Calitz added that the State should have proven that he had gone out to intentionally buy the poison, as well as a towel with which to smother her. He also pointed out that expert witness Professor Johan Dempers was non-committal when asked if he could say whether the toddler had been raped before or after her death. However, prosecutor Esmeralda Cecil argued that Saunders had been convicted after the court considered the evidence in its totality. She maintained that Saunders' semen had been found in the deep vaginal vault and on her genitals, which proved the little girl had been raped. In terms of the sentence, Calitz insisted that by law, a life sentence and any additional sentence must run concurrently because "one only has one life". ALSO READ: Courtney Pieters murderer was paranoid about being poisoned He said Saunders had shown remorse by writing a letter of apology to Pieters' family, had taken responsibility for his actions, was a first offender and had been in jail for 20 months before he was sentenced. Calitz also referred to Saunders' co-operation after his arrest. Saunders made a confession to the police, pointed out locations and pleaded guilty. But Cecil argued that two life sentences were in line with the prescribed minimum sentence and added that the court had not misdirected itself. When delivering her judgment, Mantame said she fully considered the arguments, but that they had already been addressed during the trial and judgment proceedings. The application was dismissed. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Life sentences for Hannah Cornelius' murderers The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. MOMENT OF TRUTH: Jason Rohde found guilty of murder Jason Rohde was found guilty of the murder of his wife Susan by the Western Cape High Court on Thursday. He was also found guilty of obstructing the ends of justice. 

Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe delivered her judgment in under two hours. WATCH: 'I miss him every day' - Mother of murdered Coligny teen Pieter Doorewaard and Phillip Schutte were found guilty of murdering 16-year-old Matlhomola Moshoeu after they had caught him stealing a sunflower in Coligny. They were also found guilty of kidnapping, intimidation, theft and pointing a firearm. WATCH: Two farm workers accused of killing Coligny teen found guilty Two farm workers accused of killing a 15-year-old Coligny teen were found guilt of murder in the North West High Court in Mahikeng on Wednesday. WATCH LIVE: Jason Rohde sentencing procedures get underway Convicted murderer Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings will get underway in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday December 5.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.