Sesona Ngqakamba WATCH: Hundreds of Bushiri supporters picket outside court Hundreds of supporters of self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri gathered outside the Commercial Crimes Court in Pretoria on Monday morning. 

Bushiri and his wife appeared briefly after being arrested on Friday for fraud and money laundering. Self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri and his wife made a very short court appearance in the Pretoria Commercial Crimes Court on Monday, before the case was postponed to allow the State to carry out further investigations. Bushiri and his wife, who remain in custody, will return to court on Wednesday. A large group of Bushiri church congregants protested outside the court before the couple's appearance. Due to little space inside the court, only one media house managed to get inside. WATCH: The church is bigger than Bushiri - ECG Church spokesperson Prophet Bushiri's Enlightened Christian Gathering church briefed the media on events following a deadly stampede at the church on December 28, 2018. The couple was arrested by the Hawks on Friday morning in Rustenburg on charges of fraud and money laundering. Hawks spokesperson Hangwani Mulaudzi said the case against the couple was linked to alleged offences of fraud and money laundering, as well as the contravention of the Prevention of Organised Crime Act (POCA), which had been committed from 2015. Read: Prophet Bushiri, wife arrested on charges of fraud, money laundering  The media is now not being allowed inside by @SAPoliceService officers. We are trying to get our way in. #Bushiri  The contravention of the Act was in relation to Exchange Control Regulations relating to foreign currency of $1 147 200 (around R15m). Congregants of ECG are picketing in Visagie Street ahead of Shepherd Bushiri and wife appearance in the Pretoria Commercial Crimes Court. Bushiri is facing charges of money laundering & fraud.@TeamNews24 #Bushiri pic.twitter.com/pcXU8gkAF1 Congregants are chanting "FIRE" to a Hawks vehicle. @TeamNews24#Bushiri pic.twitter.com/uBiKFoyUR3 In April last year, tabloid publication Sunday World reported that Bushiri was apparently making so much money from his churches in SA that he was able to send R15m a month back to his home in Malawi. Mulaudzi confirmed to the tabloid at the time that the Hawks had been investigating the pastor, but cautioned that the case was in its early stages and that he could not divulge or confirm any details. Read more: Prophet Bushiri details what happened on night of deadly stampede The controversial prophet at that time told SABC News that he was not even aware that the police were investigating him and that he had only heard about the investigation through the media. The CRL Commission exonerated Bushiri from responsibility for the stampede at his Pretoria church, where three people died, saying the church had fully complied with safety regulations. Bushiri leaves court. The case has been postponed to Wednesday February 6, 2018. The media is still to find out why it was postponed as [we]were not allowed inside. @TeamNews24#Bushiri pic.twitter.com/1WeESQ2SOI  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Infamous snake pastor strikes again, this time feeding dog meat to congregants Controversial "snake pastor" Penuel Mnguni who has fed snake and rat to his congregants has now chosen dog meat for communion. WATCH: Witness says she was 14 when pastor Timothy Omotoso started molesting her The first witness has taken the stand of the trial of controversial pastor Timothy Omotoso, taking place in Port Elizabeth.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.