Tshidi Madia ANC supporters. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The ANC has welcomed a decision by the Department of Correctional Services to review its contract with Bosasa, while calling on law enforcement agencies to take immediate action over revelations of wrongdoing stemming from numerous commissions of inquiry currently underway. The party, through its acting spokesperson Zizi Kodwa, said it was encouraged by the decision taken by correctional services to assess its contracts following damming allegations from Cope spokesperson, and former ANC MP Dennis Bloem at the state capture commission last week. Bloem told Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo that contracts Bosasa had with the department amounted to a "money laundering scheme". READ: Bosasa scandal ANC knew of havoc and they did nothing, Dennis Bloem tells zondo commission The former ANC MP, who once served as chairperson of Parliament’s portfolio committee on correctional services, alleged that the department had paid Bosasa R240m for three years to provide catering for some of the country’s prisons, but never provided staff to cook for inmates, who were still required to prepare and cook meals for themselves. Zondo, following the revelations, asked the commission's legal team to investigate if Bosasa, now known as African Global Operations, still enjoyed an alleged corrupt relationship with the department. He also called for urgent steps to be taken by law enforcement agencies to stop further plundering of taxpayers’ money. "The ANC calls on the state or government and law enforcement agencies to act on the revelations from various commissions of inquiry if there is overwhelming evidence of wrongdoing," said Kodwa. READ: Exclusive: Pictures show how Bosasa installed security systems at Gwede Mantashe's Eastern Cape home Two other commissions of inquiry are also currently underway, one looking into the Public Investment Corporation and the Justice Yvonne Mokgoro inquiry into suspended National Prosecuting Authority’s deputy national director Nomgcobo Jiba and advocate Lawrence Mrwebi’s fitness to hold office. "The preliminary investigation from these various commissions reveals a systematic and toxic relationship between business and public officials, which needs to be regulated with tighter policy controls such as the PFMA [Public Finance Management Act], and early warning systems," said Kodwa. He added that the revelations from the numerous commissions applied to all governing parties. "Be it small or big party, it affects all political parties. We need strong policies to regulate the relationship between business and public officials," said Kodwa. PODCAST: Zuma's nine lost years? Ramaphosa shouldn't forget — he was there AUDIO: 2019 is off to a flying start, from Bosasa and the endless inquiries to Solly Msimanga stepping down as Tshwane mayor and electioneering getting into full swing.

This week on POLOTIKI, we discuss former president Jacob Zuma's legacy. LISTEN: 'That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. LISTEN: That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. LISTEN: Bosasa bosses Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma [WITH SUBTITLES] In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. WATCH: 'Give me a tender' - sings satirical 'Elvis' on Bosasa scandal The much-talked about Bosasa scandal has gripped South Africa over the past week since former chief-operating officer Angelo Agrizzi blew the whistle on bribery and corruption. LISTEN: Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. WATCH: Bosasa and #StateCapture | Here's what you need to know... Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson emerges as 'kingpin of bribes' Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson has emerged as the absolute kingpin in the Bosasa empire of bribes, intimidation and cold hard cash. WATCH: Former Bossasa COO unpacks the bribes Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi on Thursday detailed the money trail allegedly used for bribing state entities. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi continues to testify at state capture inquiry - Day 2 The second day of testimony by former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi at the commission of inquiry into state capture is set to be far more explosive and damning for the ruling ANC party and his former colleagues. ANALYSIS | #StateCaptureInquiry: Unpacking Agrizzi's testimony Watch as News24 investigative journalist Kyle Cowen and journalist Jeanette Chabalala unpack former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi's revelations at the state capture commission. WATCH: Bosasa spent between 'R4m and R6m a month' in cash bribes - Agrizzi at #StateCaptureInquiry Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.