Sesona Ngqakamba Man posing to be a Hawks officer arrested.   (SUPPLIED) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A man who posed as a member of the Hawks has been arrested for allegedly attempting to extort R200 000 from a person implicated in allegations of wrongdoing at the state capture commission of inquiry. This is after the Gauteng Hawks' serious corruption investigation unit was alerted to the blackmail. It is believed that the suspect, 34, posed as an officer and allegedly told the unnamed person that he would make investigation against him disappear, Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said. "To do this, he demanded R200 000. The complainant met with the suspect and handed him R8 000 with the promise of settling the balance later that afternoon. The second meeting took place as agreed and the suspect was apprehended by the Hawks officers," Mulaudzi said. Supplemental sworn statements, which News24 has seen, show a WhatsApp conversation between the complainant and suspect in which they talk about cases pertaining to facilities management company Bosasa and the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa . In the chat, the suspect writes; "I've spoken with the prosecutor from the NPA, he can sort things out from his side in terms of paperwork. He's waiting to hear from me on the way forward". He further writes and asks the complainant what he offered "on the table" as payment. The suspect also writes that it would take "R200K for both cases" to go away. "150K for Bosasa only. Very high profile case" the suspect writes. Arrested suspect in Hawks branded clothing (Supplied) READ: Agrizzi, Mti, Gillingham among Hawks' Bosasa arrests The suspect is expected to appear in the Alexandra Magistrate's Court on Thursday. Mulaudzi said the suspect, who was arrested on Tuesday, was found wearing Hawks-branded clothing in Sandton. He was also found to be in possession of fake South African Police Service, Hawks and National Prosecuting Authority documents as well as a false Hawks appointment certificate. National head of the Hawks Lieutenant General Godfrey Lebeya has welcomed the arrest. "I welcome the work of the team that was involved. The arrest has removed the threat posed by the suspect on the community. We encourage members of the public to continue to provide information on criminals." Lebeya said the days of faking the Hawks' identities were over. Last week, the Hawks arrested former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi and former correctional services commissioner Linda Mti on allegations of corruption related to the facilities management company.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.