Ntwaagae Seleka (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Three North West farmers and four farmworkers appeared in court on Tuesday for the kidnapping and killing of a local man. North West police spokesperson Colonel Adele Myburgh said the seven accused appeared briefly in the Vryburg Magistrate's Court. It is alleged that Christo Scholtz 24, Frederik Theodorus Scholtz 59, Frederik Theodorus Scholtz Jnr 26, Moholo Katlego 29, Thamene Abel Phogisho, 29, Daniel Thameng 21, and Modisaotsile Links 26, kidnapped and killed Ben Molwele, 56, last month. Myburgh said the accused's court appearance stemmed from an incident in which Molwele went missing. "The incident was reported at Stella police station on January 17, by his family members. According to information received, Molwele and two others were chased by farmworkers after being found inside a farm store. "It is alleged that farmers were called after Molwele was caught. It is further alleged that Molwele was assaulted, put in a vehicle and dropped off along the N18 road. Following an intensive investigation, including a widespread search by various police units, Molwele's body was found at about 10:00 along the N18, approximately 20km from Stella on Sunday," she said. READ: 'Is life so cheap?' - Coligny murder prosecutor asks ahead of sentencing Shortly after Molwele's body was discovered, police arrested the seven accused. All seven are in custody, except for Schultz senior, who was released on a warning due to ill health. They are expected to return to court on Friday. Myburgh said the North West provincial commissioner, Lieutenant General Baile Motswenyane, reiterated an appeal to members of the community to respect the rule of law and to refrain from taking the law into their own hands because the police will not hesitate to take drastic action against anyone who commits crime. "She congratulated all members who worked hard to ensure that perpetrators are brought to book," said Myburgh.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.