Kamva Somdyala Police. (Photo: Getty Images/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A senior employee at the Alfred Duma Local Municipality was shot dead on Thursday morning in Ladysmith, KwaZulu-Natal in what was believed to be an ambush. Oscar Hlatshwayo had been driving to work when two unknown armed gunmen opened fire on his car at the intersection of Farquhar and Harrismith roads, municipality spokesperson Siyabonga Maphalala confirmed. Hlatshwayo was the executive director of the technical and infrastructure services department. KwaZulu-Natal spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele confirmed that Hlatshwayo was shot at when he stopped at the traffic light. Also read: Manhunt for gunman after Limpopo ward councillor shot dead At that point, according to Mbhele, "he sustained injuries and tried to drive off but the suspects followed him and shot him, leading to his death". The motive for the shooting is unknown. Police confirmed that a murder docket was opened. No arrests have been made. According to Maphalala, Hlatshwayo served on the municipality's council for more than 15 years. He was employed by the former Emnambithi/Ladysmith local municipality after he graduated as a civil engineer. In 2016, when the former Indaka municipality merged with the Emnambithi/Ladysmith municipality to form the Alfred Duma Local Municipality, Hlatshwayo was promoted to the position that he held at the time of his death. WATCH: Joburg security guard wounded in shootout with armed robbery suspects A security guard was shot and wounded as he investigated a suspected business robbery on the corner of Prichard and Mooi Streets in Johannesburg last Saturday afternoon. WATCH: Residents cry for help as man shot dead in Durban road A 32-year-old male suspect will appear in court on a charge of murder on Tuesday after a video shows Chatsworth community members crowding around a dead body in the street. WATCH: Chinese national shot and wounded, cash stolen in Johannesburg A Chinese national was shot and wounded and cash stolen out of his vehicle when several armed robbers pounced on his car south of Johannesburg yesterday. WATCH: Shooting at KZN court - two confirmed dead At least two people have been shot and killed at the Durban Magistrate's Court. WATCH: Would-be robber shot dead outside Limpopo mall A would-be bag thief was shot and killed in the parking lot of a Polokwane mall; this after the owner of the bag gave chase, pointed a firearm at the assailant and pulled the trigger. WATCH: 1 dead, 1 injured in Valhalla Park gang-related shooting One person was shot dead and another injured in a gang-related shooting in Valhalla Park, Cape Town, on Thursday morning. WATCH: Man shot dead in car in Welkom mall parking lot A 54-year-old man was shot at close range while sitting in his car outside a shopping centre in Welkom on Saturday, police said on Sunday. VIDEO FROM THE SCENE: Three men injured in apparent hostage drama at Randfontein church A man was shot and two others were injured while trying to escape an alleged hostage situation at a church in Randfontein, Johannesburg. WATCH: Forensic teams comb crime scene after Mihalik shooting A police officer calls for assistance moments after criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik was shot dead in his car in Green Point, Cape Town. WATCH: Criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik shot dead outside Green Point school Reports have emerged that lawyer Pete Mihalik has been murdered in a Cape Town shooting.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.