Canny Maphanga OR Tambo International Airport. (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Gauteng police have managed to make another breakthrough in the OR Tambo International Airport "follow home" robberies. On Thursday morning, four suspects alleged to have been involved in robbing travellers after following them from the airport, were arrested. Members of the National Investigation Unit (NINU), together with members of the airport and the SAPS Flying Squad, arrested the group in Alexandra, near Sandton. The suspects were allegedly planning a robbery when the police team pounced on them as they were changing the number plates on their sedan. "However, three suspects managed to flee, initiating a high-speed chase and a shootout between the suspects and the police. The suspect's vehicle swerved off the road, crashing to a halt," police spokesperson Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo said. One of the suspects was shot and wounded during the ensuing chase. "Our team also recovered at least two handguns," Naidoo added. The firearms have since been sent for ballistic testing to determine if they were the weapons used in the robberies. The latest development follows the arrest of four other suspects in January. National police commissioner General Khehla John Sitole welcomed the arrests and praised members for their sterling work. "I am very pleased with the progress we are making to significantly reduce this category of crime but, more importantly I am equally pleased that our proactive strategy is yielding positive results," he said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: OR Tambo baggage handler caught slinging suitcases, suspended The OR Tambo International Airport baggage handler who was caught on camera carelessly flinging suitcases from the carousel onto the floor has been suspended. WATCH: Woman robbed at gunpoint outside Midrand shopping centre Police are investigating a case of armed robbery after a woman was robbed at gunpoint in the parking lot of the Crowthorne shopping centre last week Wednesday. WATCH: Eyewitness films dramatic scenes after M1 Joburg shooting Two people are recovering in hospital after a shooting on the Jan Smuts offramp of the M1 north highway in Johannesburg. WATCH: Vicki Momberg shown support after leave to appeal application is postponed Former estate agent Vicki Momberg, who was convicted in connection with a racist rant, was back in the dock in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Wednesday - this time to apply for leave to appeal her effective two-year jail sentence. WATCH: Armed thieves attack cash-in-transit guards in Krugersdorp A money truck was attacked by armed thieves after guards were collecting money from a filling station in Kagiso on Monday. WATCH: Pravin will destroy Eskom and SAA in order to privatise them - EFF The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) staged a picket outside the State Capture Inquiry on Monday calling for the removal of Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Public Enterprises. WATCH: Brazen robbery in Hillbrow leaves two security officers dead Two security officers were shot and killed during a robbery in Hillbrow on Monday night. Police hunt Italian Job-style shopping centre raiders Police have likened CCTV footage of thieves driving through a shopping centre to a scene out of 1960s crime caper The Italian Job.

The raiders smashed their way into the Forum Shopping Centre in Wallsend, North Tyneside, at around 4.10am on Janua... Arizona man hit with Taser 11 times, lawsuit filed An Arizona man is suing a suburban Phoenix police department for excessive force after he claims officers used a Taser on him 11 times, including purposefully on his testicles. The Glendale Police Department denies most of the claims. Man arrested for attacking Sikh clerk thinking he was Muslim A man identified as John Crain punched and threw hot coffee on a Sikh clerk in California because he thought he was Muslim. Crain has been arrested and charged with a hate crime. #hatecrime #Muslim #Sikh Clumsy burglars steal from Texas liquor store Three clumsy burglars are wanted in the Houston area after surveillance video captured the men breaking into a Cypress liquor store and stealing several bottles of alcohol before leaving in a hurry - tripping and shattering glass in the process.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.