Ntwaagae Seleka Handcuffs. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Gauteng woman has praised Pretoria police for recently arresting a man who allegedly swindled her out of R15 000 in March 2016. Sunnyside police spokesperson Captain Daniel Mavimbela said the 40-year-old man was tracked down and arrested on Monday in Randburg, Johannesburg. "According to reports, the suspect had falsely placed an advert on a website suggesting that he was selling a motor vehicle R28 000. The woman contacted the suspect with an intention to buy the car. The two met in Hillbrow, Johannesburg, for the victim to view the car. The unsuspecting victim was reportedly persuaded to pay a deposit by the suspect because the car she wanted to buy was in demand. "They agreed that the balance would be paid upon delivery of the car. The two later met again in Sunnyside when the suspect came to collect part of the down payment. However, the car was never delivered, in spite of numerous attempts by the victim to contact the suspect," said Mavimbela. WATCH: Police arrest KZN man who threatened to blow up office workers Police have arrested a KwaZulu-Natal man who threatened to blow up office workers with a bomb. READ: 4 arrested for alleged fake JMPD jobs scam The woman then laid criminal charges at the Sunnyside police station. Email sent Mavimbela said that, upon hearing news that the man had been arrested this week, the woman sent an email to the Sunnyside police station, commending them for their hard work in tracing down the suspect. "It's been three years since I opened the case and couldn't believe hearing that the suspect is in police custody. This brought back hope in me, as I had given up on the case. I am more confident in the justice system of our country and want to commend Captain Masoding Motolla and team for good work and dedication," she wrote. Mavimbela said Sunnyside police were not ruling out the possibility of linking the suspect to other similar cases locally and across the province. He urged people who sell goods on the internet to be cautious, warning that they are at risk of being potential victims and that they should always be vigilant. "Scamsters target both buyers and sellers alike," he said. The suspect has been charged with theft under false pretence and is expected to appear in the Pretoria Magistrate's Court soon. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Shady character steals designer sunglasses A thief with sticky fingers was able to steal two pairs of designer sunglasses from an optical store in Johannesburg last Friday. WATCH: Premier David Makhura receives letter of demand from coloured communities Residents in Gauteng communities affected by gang violence marched in Johannesburg on Friday to hand over a letter of demand to Gauteng Premier David Makhura. WATCH: No injuries or fatalities in South African factory fire Johannesburg emergency services spent hours trying to contain a fire that broke out in a glue and paper factory in Kya Sands, Johannesburg, on Wednesday morning. Prosecutors call for 'immediate imprisonment' of Pell Convicted Australian Cardinal George Pell has shown "no remorse" for his assault of two choirboys, prosecutors say as they called for immediate imprisonment after his historic conviction for child sex crimes. Grave dilemma: S.African cities short of cemetery space In Johannesburg, land is a hot topic, even for the dead. Population growth, migration to urban areas and an influx of foreigners has put huge pressure on land in urban areas. Adding to the problem is a cultural resistance to the practice of cremat... Couples marry on Robben Island in tribute to Mandela On Valentine's Day, couples tie the knot on Robben Island in South Africa to pay tribute to Nelson Mandela who spent time in prison on the island during Apartheid. Clumsy burglars steal from Texas liquor store Three clumsy burglars are wanted in the Houston area after surveillance video captured the men breaking into a Cypress liquor store and stealing several bottles of alcohol before leaving in a hurry - tripping and shattering glass in the process. WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. South African archaeologists find "lost city" using laser technology Researchers used cutting edge laser technology to recreate an ancient city that existed near Johannesburg from the 15th century until about 200 years ago. Avenatti: Girl on video listed in Kelly charges Attorney Michael Avenatti says a 14-year-old girl seen with R. Kelly on a video Avenatti turned over to prosecutors is among four victims in a newly released indictment charging the singer with aggravated sexual abuse. WATCH: Queuing won't guarantee university admission The University of Johannesburg is urging prospective students to register online Instead of queuing on campus. WATCH: Pedestrian mowed down by taxi driving in the wrong lane A taxi driving on the wrong side of the road knocked over a pedestrian in morning traffic in Sharonlea, Johannesburg on Monday. Police: Patriots owner solicited prostitute Police: Patriots owner solicited prostitute WATCH: Truck carrying bitumen catches fire Part of the R21 near Irene in Pretoria was covered in a cloud of black smoke as a truck transporting bitumen caught fire. WATCH: New footage shows armed men fleeing after Joburg M1 shootout New footage has emerged giving further insight into the shooting on Johannesburg's M1 on Monday. WATCH: Firefighters run Soweto Marathon in 18kg gear to honour fallen colleagues Three Johannesburg firefighters ran the Old Mutual Soweto Marathon on Sunday in bunker gear, to commemorate their fallen colleagues. WATCH: Door of Hope: A new beginning for abandoned babies The Door of Hope organisation has taken care of more than 1500 children since it was established in 1999.

One of the ways they take in children is through the "baby bin" - a hole in the wall were parents can leave their unwanted babies. WATCH: Lehae land invaders vow to stay Residents of Lehae, south of Johannesburg, who invaded vacant RDP houses said they will not be shaken after the police evicted them and took the doors of their now homes. WATCH: House robbers make off with goods, cash worth R200 000 A family locked themselves in a room while a gang of house robbers in Johannesburg helped themselves to goods valued at R200 000 in a matter of minutes. Khumbula - Dandyness with a political message In South Africa a collective of fashion-forward dandies are challenging stereotypes about life in the country's townships. The group, called Khumbala, hails from Alexandra in Johannesburg. AB expects high quality cricket in Mzansi Super League Tshwane Spartans captain AB de Villiers admits that he is proud of South Africa hosting its own T20 tournament and expects an entertaining Mzansi Super League. WATCH: Truck set alight during protest in Isando A truck was set alight allegedly by protesting workers in the plastics sector in Isando, east of Johannesburg on Thursday. Jussie Smollett charged with faking racist attack Actor Jussie Smollett is charged with lying to police after claiming he was attacked and beaten by two masked men. Chicago police are now seeking his arrest. WATCH: 'Unruly' passenger forcibly removed from Kulula flight A passenger was forcibly removed from a Kulula flight bound for Johannesburg from Durban on Sunday night. WATCH: Weekend hail leaves parts of Pretoria covered in ice Severe weather conditions hit large parts of Gauteng this past weekend after the South African Weather Service (SAWS) issued a notice for severe thunderstorms across the province. WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. WATCH: Freedom Park residents demonstrate outside Luthuli House Luthuli House in the Johannesburg CBD should brace itself for a "sleepover" if the Gauteng government doesn't address issues raised by landless residents of Freedom Park in the south of the city. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. Johannesburg's grandest old colonial club seeks new image With its imposing columned facade, hunting trophies and oil portraits, the Rand Club in Johannesburg's city centre is a relic of South Africa's colonial and apartheid past. But Alicia Thompson, a black woman born in Johannesburg, is seeking to rep... WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. The ever-changing graffiti canvas of Sao Paulo's Vila Madalena is a once in a lifetime experience The name says it all. It's the backdrop and set for insta-selfies and professional shoots alike. WATCH: This 30-year-old family business is a school hotspot for Joburg families Gauteng schools open on Wednesday and parents are on the hunt for affordable school uniforms. WATCH: 'ANC is killing us' - DA unveils billboard listing names of Marikana, Life Esidimeni victims DA leaders and supporters marched on Wednesday to unveil a new giant billboard in Johannesburg. WATCH Hundreds of flamingo chicks admitted to SANCCOB for life-saving rehabilitation Over 2 000 abandoned and distressed flamingo chicks were jetted all over South Africa this week as part of a series of mercy flights from Kimberley after their habitat came under threat due to water problems. 'Our rail system has gone to the dogs' - DA protests at Prasa offices The Democratic Alliance held a picket outside the offices of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA) in Hatfield, Pretoria on Wednesday. Cardi B arrives at court over assault charges Cardi B arrives at court over assault charges WATCH: New footage has emerged following clash by 2 rival church groups in Joburg New video footage has emerged of the widely reported clash outside the International Pentecost Holiness Church in Zuurbekom, west of Johannesburg last Thursday. R. Kelly turns himself in to police R&B singer R. Kelly arrived at a police station to turn himself in on Friday, after charges of sexual abuse were brought against the singer. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. Kwesta, Cassper Nyovest and Nasty C among this celeb barber's famous clientele Celebrity barber Sheldon Tatchell is well-known for cutting the hair of Johannesburg's elite and now The Legends Barbershop will be setting up shop in Cape Town. WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. Miley Cyrus is in Cape Town, South Africa Miley Cyrus was spotted shopping in Cape Town, South Africa. Local celebs shine on SA Fashion Week red carpet Local celebs came dressed in the finest fashions as they stepped onto the red carpet at the Cruz Vodka SA Fashion Week launch party in Johannesburg. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. South Africans confront a gloomy economic outlook South Africa's economy has entered recession for the first time since 2009, dealing a blow to President Cyril Ramaphosa's economic reform agenda. San Francisco uses tech to clear pot convictions San Francisco has erased or reduced thousands of marijuana-related convictions using a technological approach that the district attorney says prosecutors nationwide should adopt to address growing a backlog of criminal cases. WATCH: Roaring trade for some small businesses amidst load shedding gloom Last Sunday Eskom implemented load shedding for the first time since December 2019. While this has resulted in major inconvenience and loss of income for ordinary South Africans and most businesses, some are seeing a sharp increase in trade as a dire WATCH: Thieves steal Diesel watches from Pretoria shop A Pretoria business has appealed to twitter following the brazen theft of four Diesel watches worth R 4000 each out of a locked display. WATCH: Chinese national shot and wounded, cash stolen in Johannesburg A Chinese national was shot and wounded and cash stolen out of his vehicle when several armed robbers pounced on his car south of Johannesburg yesterday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.