Tammy Petersen WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. Sans Souci Girls High School teacher Clarissa Venter receives support outside the Wynberg Magistrate's Court. (Tammy Petersen, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The mother of the Cape Town pupil who was slapped during an altercation with her Afrikaans teacher has decided to "withdraw" her daughter from the school, her lawyers said on Thursday. "The decision to withdraw the learner from the school was prompted by concerns for her well-being, in the face of the unfair and unlawful treatment she has been subjected to and the extremely hostile environment the school has created for her," the Chamber of Legal Students, which has been representing the Grade 9 pupil, said in a statement. "This is not an environment conducive for her to study in." The "prolonged unlawful suspension" has effectively deprived the pupil of her right to education, it charged, and it accused the provincial education department of refusing to "step in and protect the learner's constitutional rights". WATCH: Support for Sans Souci teacher following court appearance The teacher charged with the assault of a Sans Souci Girls High School pupil, as well as the teenager she slapped, made their first appearances in the Wynberg Magistrate's Court on Wednesday. "In such circumstances, the mother has no alternative but to take her child out of the school. This is in the best interest of the learner." Department spokesperson Bronagh Hammond previously told News24 that in terms of regulations, if disciplinary proceedings were not conducted within seven school days after the suspension of the pupil, the governing body should obtain approval for the continuation of the suspension. The total period of suspension of a pupil should not be longer than 21 school days, but in this case, the school applied for a continuation of the suspension which was approved, she explained. According to the department, the pupil started receiving school work two school days after her suspension. The child's lawyers said the mother had no confidence that the disciplinary hearing scheduled for Friday would be "fair or impartial". "Based on the submissions made previously to the school regarding the procedural irregularities and since she is no longer a learner at the school, there is no basis for her to participate in it. The mother will proceed with legal action against the school, the SGB (school governing body) and the Western Cape Department of Education for the violation of the learner's rights." Pupils and members of the public came out in support of the teacher, Clarissa Venter, 34, who was captured on video when she slapped the Grade 9 pupil after the child shoved her during an altercation over a book. They laid assault charges against each other. Hammond earlier on Thursday confirmed "rumblings" of a protest at the Newlands school if the pupil returned. "The principal has explained that a process is being followed and they have to await the outcome of that process." "The school will explain carefully how the process works and manage the situation so that the learners accept the outcome." A day after the assault in February, a group of pupils staged a demonstration in support of the teacher. They made a poster which read: "It's not about race." Others contacted a Cape Town radio station after it was claimed on air that the girl was a troublemaker. After her in camera court appearance in the Wynberg Magistrate's Court on Wednesday, the pupil told News24 she never wanted to return to the school again. Her mother, however, at the time said she would decide later because they "first need to clear this up". According to the pupil, she has been receiving threatening messages from her schoolmates, warning her not to return to Sans Souci. Hammond, however, said the school was not aware of the threats. The mother claimed that on the day of her daughter's disciplinary hearing, the principal told her to find another school for her child to attend because she had brought Sans Souci "into disrepute". Hammond denied this. "The principal did not tell the mother that she 'must' find another school. She allegedly advised the parent that if they do not want the child to have a record - should the outcome be negative for the learner - then the learner can deregister before the disciplinary is complete. She also allegedly said this in reaction to the mother bad-mouthing the school." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Kasky: I hoped to make gun control happen A shooting at Cameron Kasky's school in Florida killed three teachers and 14 of his fellow students. Why classrooms are starting to resemble arcades A vast array of apps, websites and software in schools today borrow elements from video games to help teachers connect with students living technology-infused lives. In war-torn Yemen, some students take classes under the tree Displaced children in Yemen find no room in overcrowded schools in Abs, forcing teachers to run lessons in makeshift classrooms where they are exposed to sunlight and insects. Los Angeles teachers end week-long strike The union for more than 30,000 striking Los Angeles teachers clinched a tentative contract deal with the second-largest U.S. school district on Tuesday, paving the way for classes to resume for nearly half a million students after a week-long walkout Raqqa's schools resemble battlegrounds More than a year since the United States and its allies defeated Islamic State in the Syrian city of Raqqa, many of its schools still resemble battlegrounds that are unfit for purpose. In Pakistan public education suffocates under surging population At the Tanjai Cheena school in northwest Pakistan students squeeze into makeshift classrooms where plastic tarps serve as walls and electricity is sparse, as a surging population overstretches the country's fragile education system. Teaching the World with VIPKID's Cindy Mi VIPKID's Cindy Mi talks to Megan Rose Dickey about the importance of personalized learning, recruiting and retaining teachers, and changes to the edtech landscape. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. South Korea - the price of success South Korea's education system is notorious for the pressure it places on school students. Often they have little time for hobbies or friends. One start-up wants to make learning more fun. Thousands of Los Angeles teachers striking Los Angeles teachers went on strike Monday after talks failed in the nation's second largest school disctrict. Schools remain open and the district superintendent said 'students are safe and learning'. B.C. school board provides free menstrual products A British Columbia school board believes it is one of the first in the country to provide free feminine hygiene products in washrooms. Members of the New Westminster school board debated and unanimously passed a motion Tuesday night. Starting in S... B.C. school board provides free menstrual products A British Columbia school board believes it is one of the first in the country to provide free feminine hygiene products in washrooms. Members of the New Westminster school board debated and unanimously passed a motion Tuesday night. Starting in S... Movie Report: Red Sparrow In the mystery thriller 'Red Sparrow', we follow Jennifer Lawrence as a Russian ballerina who gets recruited into 'Sparrow School'. This isn't your typical 'nose in the books' education though. Instead, the girls learn to use their bodies as weapons. WATCH: MyCiTi employees' 'wildcat' strike continued on Tuesday A "wildcat" strike by MyCiTi employees appeared to enter its second day on Tuesday as the bus service announced disruptions on several routes around Cape Town. Why Cape Town is turning off its taps South Africa's second largest city is in the midst of a severe drought. WATCH: Cape Town's karate kid raises tournament money through hard work and community support A pint-sized karate kid from Lansdowne in Cape Town has unleashed his inner entrepreneur, raising money to take part in a national karate tournament by selling atchar, dried fruit and sauces at a stall in Rylands. West Virginia teachers going on strike Tuesday Nearly a year to the day after West Virginia teachers went on strike, they're doing it again. Unions called a statewide walkout Tuesday over education legislation that they view as lacking their input and as retaliation for last year's strike. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. Denver teachers, officials resume negotations Students joined teachers on the picket lines for a second day as the Denver Public Schools district and teacher’s union resumed negotiations. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. VIDEO: 'We pay R2 to use mall toilets' – Cape Town informal settlement residents demand basic servic Five Cape Town communities joined with social justice movements to march to the Cape Town Civic Centre on Thursday. 

The protesters expressed exasperation over the lack of basic services in informal settlements in the city. Students meet extremists in 'poli-rad' class Teachers at an Ohio school invite members of America's political extremes into the classroom to engage with students. The goal is to teach students to question unfamiliar ideas with respect while building critical thinking skills. WATCH: Zille breaks ground on R3bn mixed-income residential project Western Cape Premier Helen Zille said the "pioneering" housing project expected at the site of the derelict old Conradie Hospital in Cape Town could "make or break" the current housing system. Drake still texts his high school teacher Drake has revealed he still texts his high school teacher - despite dropping out of school to pursue his career - as she congratulated him for his recent chart success. Oakland teachers on strike, demand big pay raises Oakland's 3,000 teachers, who want a 12 percent raise, say are they're among the lowest paid public school teachers in the expensive San Francisco Bay Area. Striking Oakland teachers rally, march downtown About 3,000 teachers in Oakland, California, are striking over pay, class sizes and other issues, following educator walkouts in West Virginia, Los Angeles and Denver. The Oakland strike affects 36,000 students at 86 schools. Very concerning: NSW teacher accused of grooming student February, 2019. NSW Police Detective Inspector Mick Haddow speaking to media in Sydney about a NSW high school teacher who has been accused of indecently assaulting a 15-year-old student. Haddow says it is very concerning and urged parents and children to talk more openly about the dangers of grooming by those in positions of power. Denver teachers prepare to strike on Monday Denver teachers plan to strike Monday after failed negotiations with the school district over pay. Teachers plan to picket around the city beginning Monday. The district plans to staff schools with administrators and substitutes. Denver teachers picket on first day of strike Denver teachers picket on first day of strike Denver teachers, officials hopeful deal is near Teachers walked picket Iines as talks to end a three-day teacher’s strike in Denver resumed Wednesday. Both sides returned to the bargaining table hopeful that a settlement could be reached. Arizona educator becomes state teacher boss Spurred on by teacher protests, scores of teachers ran for office this fall, with many of them winning. They include Kathy Hoffman, who was sworn in Monday as Arizona's new Superintendent of Public Instruction. Meet the teacher who wears school uniform Alex Maina Kariuki is a school principal with a difference. He insists on wearing the same school uniform as his students. David Oakes: Schools should teach lesser known Shakespeare plays Victoria star David Oakes has said he would like to see the lesser known Shakespeare plays taught in schools.

The actor, best known for playing Prince Ernest in the ITV period drama, said an attempt should be made to broaden people's horizons, ra... Broncos president: Finding 'new normal' critical for Humboldt Students returned to school in Humboldt, Saskatchewan, on Tuesday following Friday's bus crash that killed 15 people. The director of education for Greater Saskatoon Catholic Schools says the students were "happy to be together." Pakistan's solar-powered schools for the underprivileged A 'SLUM' school run by Rohayl Varind is Pakistan's first solar night school. The anger propelling teachers into politics Over the past few months, massive teacher protests have shut down schools across the country. Now, the fight for education funding is prompting some to run for office. Marseille high school students clash with police Thousands of high school students take to the streets in Marseille, as more and more join students protest against education reforms affecting university admission. French police arrest hundreds of students across the country French students have been blocking access to high schools across France in protest of President Emmanuel Macron's education reforms. #France #Franceprotests #giletsjaunes #Macron Teacher strike delayed in Los Angeles The teacher union representing 35,000 Los Angeles members is postponing the start of a strike till next Monday. They had planned to strike Thursday, but the possibility of a court-ordered delay of the strike prompted the union move. Powerlifting school teacher finds success at 50 Lucille Rowan is a weightlifter who won Commonwealth silver at powerlifting a year after first picking up a weight aged almost 50. Why Kenyan school children say 'no', loudly School girls and boys in Kenyan schools are being taught self defence and how to report sexual and physical attacks. The Duchess of Cambridge makes passionate speech about children's mental health The Duchess of Cambridge thanks health and education delegates for their work at a Mental Health in Education conference in London. The Royal Foundation event saw experts discuss what more can be done to tackle mental health issues in schools with... Dresden teacher wary of far-right AfD online platform A Dresden teacher recalls what life was like under communism. That's why the far-right AfD party's new online platform reminds her of the days when students could denounce teachers. Rally at Colorado capitol in support of teachers Striking teachers picketed outside of schools and marched through Denver’s streets as car horns blared in support. More than 2,100 of about 4,000 teachers called in absent in Denver’s first strike in 25 years. Parents sue over district’s policy to arm teachers Parents filed a lawsuit to block a Pennsylvania school district from allowing teachers to carry guns in school, the latest in a debate playing out in many states over whether it's wise to arm educators to protect students from mass shooters. Trump's safety panel weighs in on arming teachers President Donald Trump's school safety commission said it should be left to states and schools to decide whether to arm teachers, but Education Secretary Betsy DeVos said she urges schools to "seriously consider" the option. Cardi B visits former elementary school Cardi B just shocked and surprised teachers and students at her old elementary school when she paid them a visit!   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.