Jenni Evans WATCH: Former Springbok and his partner allegedly steal tee-ed off golfers' clubs A former Springbok and his partner were caught on camera making off with a R7 000 driver at the Stellenbosch Golf Club. Lylette Van Wyk, co-accused with Earl Rose. (Jenni Evans, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A woman has been added as an accused in the case of former Springbok rugby player Earl Rose, who faces theft charges over the mysterious disappearance and resurfacing of two stolen golf clubs. The woman arrived just before court proceedings started. She was dressed in a navy blue dress and wore gold hoop earrings, with her hair tied up in a bun. She sat on a bench away from Rose as he waited for his name to be called in the Stellenbosch Magistrate's Court on Monday. Rose covered his face and stared at his trainers while he waited. The woman, identified as Lylette van Wyk, stood half a metre away from Rose when they appeared in the dock. The court heard that she had been added to the case and her lawyer needed time to consult with her over the allegation of theft she faces. With his shaved head, tattooed arm and anchor beard, Rose stared straight ahead as the court heard that the investigation had been completed. Once the postponement for consultation was confirmed, he left with a small group of people who appeared to be family members. Annoyed by attempts to photographing her, Van Wyk put her hands on her hips, posed for a quick second and said: "There!" and left. 'Lost and found' The two accused are allegedly behind the mysterious disappearance of a golf club and putter from the Stellenbosch Golf Club in January. Long-time club member Grant Gainsford previously told the media his R7 000 nickel driver was missing from his bag when he and friend Louis Swanepoel tee-ed off. Swanepoel discovered that a putter that had set him back R3 500 was gone. They had left their clubs for a brief time while signing in for a round. At first, they suspected each other and thought it was a prank, but later realised the clubs had been stolen. They reported it to the club and asked for an investigation. Video footage showed a woman removing a club from a golf bag, while a man believed to be Rose allegedly followed her. Another clip showed the man – who exchanged a wave with another visitor entering the facility – walking through the front door, allegedly carrying a club, followed by the woman. The man later returned the equipment. The driver was partially dismantled and he reportedly said they were "lost and found". KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Magistrate browses on phone as stenographer sleeps Goodwood Magistrate Sean Lea was secretly filmed by a person in court, while he was casually scrolling through his smartphone. WATCH: Cyclists attacked by 'furious' motorist near Stellenbosch Brendon Jacobs and Jandre Du Raan have been left traumatised after a motorist attacked the pair riding ahead of him near Stellenbosch on Sunday. WATCH: At least 31 houses destroyed in Overstrand wildfires; video shows devastation in Betty's Bay At least 31 houses have been completely destroyed and 28 partially damaged by wildfires on the coastal Overstrand region in the Western Cape. WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. WATCH: Life sentences for Hannah Cornelius' murderers The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. WATCH: Two 'high-ranking gangsters' among mourners at Pete Mihalik's funeral The funeral of slain Cape Town lawyer Pete Mihalik was held at the St Mary's Cathedral on Saturday. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma case postponed, Jacob Zuma, BLF show support Duduzane Zuma appeared briefly in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Friday. WATCH: Grandma Louw in altercation outside court Arlene Louw, the grandmother of the kidnapped and murdered nine-year-old Miguel, confronts several people accused of posting lies on Facebook outside the Durban Magistrate's Court on Wednesday. WATCH: Jacob Zuma arrives at court to support son Duduzane Former president Jacob Zuma arrived at the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday show support for his son Duduzane, who has been charged with two counts of culpable homicide. We would like to win that land in Stellenbosch because it belongs to us - 'Azania' residents Application for an eviction order by the owner of a plot of private land that people are building shacks on in Stellenbosch was postponed to the 29th of August today   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.