Kaveel Singh The skeletal remains of a child found at a military base in Durban on Monday. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Police are investigating the discovery of skeletal remains of a child during construction at a military facility. Durban Search and Rescue personnel and other officials were called out to a water treatment plant below Bluff Military Base on Monday. The pieces of skeleton were exposed during excavation. Brighton police said an inquest docket had been opened. The discovery comes a week after Durban search and rescue operators were called out to a scene where passersby heard the cries of a baby stuck in a stormwater drain last Monday. WATCH: Durban baby rescued from storm drain a 'miracle' - doctor The newborn baby that was rescued from a stormwater pipe in Durban on Monday morning is in good health, her attending physician has said. The rescue effort, involving the police's Search and Rescue Unit and emergency personnel, continued for three hours. After she emerged unharmed, the baby's attending physician at Chief Albert Luthuli Hospital called her a "miracle baby", saying her survival in the drain was "incredible". Department of Health staff unofficially named the baby Sibanisethu (Our Light) an she was said to be doing well. Officials said at the time that she would be taken to a place of safety once discharged from hospital. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Woman wards off hijackers with baby on her hip A Pinetown family and their friends - including one who had a baby on a hip - escaped a hijacking gang physically unharmed when one of the hijackers fired a rifle in their driveway over the weekend. WATCH: 7-year-old caught on camera stealing cellphone A video of a young child stealing a cellphone from a hair salon in Chatsworth, near Durban has gone viral online. WATCH: Report shows over six million SA children live below the poverty line Over six million children in South Africa still live below the food poverty line, according to the Child Gauge 2018 report released on Tuesday. WATCH: Woman uses child to steal cellphone from shopper's handbag Video footage showing a woman who presumably used a young child to steal a phone from an elderly woman's handbag has been widely circulated on social media in recent days.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.