Ntwaagae Seleka Former minister Faith Muthambi (File) (GCIS) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The DA says it will be writing to Public Service and Administration Minister Ayanda Dlodlo to ask her to make public the findings of the Public Service Commission (PSC) report into former minister Faith Muthambi. EWN reported that the PSC had found that Muthambi broke some rules when she reportedly appointed 27 people, including friends and relatives. The rules limit the number allowed to 10. That report has now been sent to President Cyril Ramaphosa and Dlodlo. In a statement on Tuesday, the DA's Desiree van der Walt said that, while the findings were welcomed, she found it peculiar that the contents of the report were shared only with the president and the minister and not with the DA. READ: Muthambi 'will support' investigation into jobs for family and friends The DA had put in the request to the PSC, in February last year, for an investigation into the hiring practices and composition of the former minister's private office. "The DA will not stand for this report to gather dust on President Cyril Ramaphosa or Minister Dlodlo's desks. The fact that Faith Muthambi is no longer a minister does not absolve her from accountability. In fact, she still remains an ANC Member of Parliament and must be held to account," she said.   PSC FINDS MUTHAMBI BROKE SOME RULES WHEN HIRING STAFF AT PRIVATE OFFICEJust over two years ago, Faith Muthambi was reported to have appointed 27 people, including friends and relatives, when the rules limit the number allowed to 10.JZ produced a lot of loose canons.  Kante, theres a friends and family quota for government ministers...????‍?? #FaithMuthambi   WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. WATCH: Malusi Gigaba resigns from Cabinet Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba resigned from his post following mounting pressure for President Cyril Ramaphosa to give him the boot. WATCH - Nene out, Mboweni in: here's everything you need to know President Cyril Ramaphosa announced on Tuesday afternoon that former Reserve Bank Governor Tito Mboweni would be the new finance minister. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. WATCH: Ramaphosa tees off ahead of ANC's manifesto launch President Cyril Ramaphosa enjoyed a day of golf on Friday morning ahead of  the ANC's birthday celebrations and manifesto launch on Saturday. Ramaphosa played alongside paired players at the Mount Edgecombe Country Club Estate in Durban. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: 'ANC is killing us' - DA unveils billboard listing names of Marikana, Life Esidimeni victims DA leaders and supporters marched on Wednesday to unveil a new giant billboard in Johannesburg. WATCH: Damage to 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard a criminal act – DA The DA has called the damage inflicted on its newly unveiled 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, a 'criminal act'.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.