Pelane Phakgadi Valhalla Primary School.  (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Valhalla Primary School teacher accused of multiple cases of sexual assault is expected to discover his fate on Thursday when the Pretoria Magistrate's Court decides whether to release him on bail. The 55-year-old teacher is accused of molesting at least 24 children at the school and police say more charges are likely to be added. On Wednesday the court heard from the investigating officer Johannes Mkhondo that statements from other alleged victims had already been obtained. The accused was initially charged with seven counts of sexual assault, but the list grew as more charges were added. READ: Valhalla Primary sex assault case: More charges could be added to teacher's list "I believe there is more and all will be confirmed as investigations continue," said Mkhondo. The man's arrest came after allegations that he sexually assaulted several children, aged 10 to 12, between 2017 and 2018. The allegations surfaced during a visit from members of the Tshwane Metro Police Department on January 23 to teach pupils about sexual offences and abuse. The #NotInMyName organisation was also present in court on Wednesday and submitted an affidavit to the court explaining why it opposed bail. "It is for his (the accused's) own safety that he is denied bail because the community seems angry," said the organisation's Themba Masango. State advocate Sanet Jacobson argued in court  that it would not be in the interests of justice for the court to grant the accused bail. WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. WATCH: Holy Cross primary in Cape Town on fire Firefighters were called out to Holy Cross RC Primary School in the Cape Town CBD after plumes of smoke were seen emanating from the premises. WATCH: Khayelitsha school bids to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place Chairperson of Enkanini Primary's School Governing Body Andile Lili shows what the school is doing in a bid to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place at the school in Khayelitsha WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.