Riaan Grobler (Photo: Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories While a fourth man believed to have been involved in the robbery and subsequent shooting at the Edenvale High School on Thursday has been apprehended, police are still on the hunt for five more suspects who fled the scene after allegedly hijacking an Uber cab. SAPS spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubele told News24 that the Uber had been dispatched to pick up a pupil when it was hijacked by the men. The Uber driver was forced to drop the men at a location that police cannot disclose as investigations are continuing, Makhubele said. The driver then reported the incident to the Johannesburg Central police station once the suspects had been dropped off. His statement has been taken and police are investigating. Dramatic shootout News24 on Thursday reported that two people had been shot dead and a third injured in a shootout at the school just before lunchtime. Makhubele on Friday said a fourth man believed to have been involved was arrested on Thursday. Makhubele said the suspect was apprehended in the Edenvale area and was allegedly in the possession of two unlicensed firearms - a rifle and a pistol. A white VW Polo which was used as a getaway vehicle was also recovered. "We are following up leads to ensure the remaining suspects are arrested," Makhubele said. Posed as a parent News24 reported that a man who posed as a parent was part of the gang of men who attempted to rob the school on Thursday, the principal of the school said. "The suspect came to the gate and said that he wanted to fetch his child. Upon entry, they asked for the keys to the safe."We gave him the keys to the safe but there was no money as we never keep money on the property," the school principal, Dr Larry Harmer, told the media outside the school.School staff sent a voice note to the Edenvale Community Policing Forum (CPF) and officials responded swiftly. A shootout ensued. On Thursday, Gauteng MEC for Education, Panyaza Lesufi, confirmed that pupils were released from the school unharmed and would return on Monday, News24 reported. "We have spoken to staff members and they are okay. "The academic programme will not be continuing (on Friday) but we will be offering psycho-social support for learners and staff on Friday," he said.  WATCH: Suspected Pretoria burglar caught breaking into school A 30-year-old suspect was arrested while breaking into a Pretoria Primary School on Wednesday morning. WATCH: Woman robbed at gunpoint outside Midrand shopping centre Police are investigating a case of armed robbery after a woman was robbed at gunpoint in the parking lot of the Crowthorne shopping centre last week Wednesday. WATCH: Robbers make off with woman's phone, bag as she walks in Muizenberg SAPS confirmed that a case of robbery was reported at Muizenberg police station on Tuesday 19 February 2019. The incident allegedly occurred on 9 February at approximately 07:40. WATCH: Brazen robbery in Hillbrow leaves two security officers dead Two security officers were shot and killed during a robbery in Hillbrow on Monday night. WATCH: Armed thieves attack cash-in-transit guards in Krugersdorp A money truck was attacked by armed thieves after guards were collecting money from a filling station in Kagiso on Monday. WATCH: Thieves ambush and rob sleeping truck driver A video of a truck driver valiantly fighting off a suspected robber who broke into his truck while he was sleeping inside has surfaced on social media. WATCH: Joburg security guard wounded in shootout with armed robbery suspects A security guard was shot and wounded as he investigated a suspected business robbery on the corner of Prichard and Mooi Streets in Johannesburg last Saturday afternoon. WATCH: Suspects run for cover after heavy fire from security officers disrupts armed robbery Two Chinese nationals and their driver were robbed of R23 000 along the M2 near the Main Reef Road exit in Johannesburg on Tuesday. WATCH: Motorist escapes hijacking, reverses into assailants' car Police are on the hunt for four men who were involved in a botched hijacking in the north of Johannesburg, last week. WATCH: CCTV footage of brazen robbery at Durban curry restaurant The Copper Chimney at the Chatsworth Centre, near Durban, was stormed and robbed by four men as the restaurant was closing up on Sunday night, East Coast Radio (ECR) reported. WATCH: Heavily armed gang steals R170 000 from supermarket A Pick n Pay supermarket in Sebokeng was robbed of an estimated R170 000 last Saturday. This after several armed men demanded keys to the safe from the manager of the outlet. WATCH: Security guard shot dead trying to help a man being robbed in Rosebank A security guard was shot dead in Rosebank on Friday afternoon. 

This is after he saw four suspects attempting to rob a man who was walking on the side of the road, police spokesperson Lungelo Dlamini told News24. WATCH: Flash robbery at Krugersdorp, South Africa, supermarket A Krugersdorp supermarket was robbed of an undisclosed amount of money over the weekend.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.