Tammy Petersen Police are investigating the death of the crew member. (Photo: Pexels) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A tow truck driver has been murdered in an early morning shooting in Athlone, Western Cape police have confirmed. The 50-year-old was gunned down at about 04:20 in Klipfontein Road, spokesperson Captain FC Van Wyk said. READ: KZN ANC member shot and killed in his home while watching TV “The deceased sustained gunshot wounds to his head and was declared dead on the scene. Circumstances surrounding this incident are under investigation.” Suspects have not yet been identified and a murder docket had been opened, he added.  WATCH: Residents cry for help as man shot dead in Durban road A 32-year-old male suspect will appear in court on a charge of murder on Tuesday after a video shows Chatsworth community members crowding around a dead body in the street. WATCH: Shooting at KZN court - two confirmed dead At least two people have been shot and killed at the Durban Magistrate's Court. WATCH: 1 dead, 1 injured in Valhalla Park gang-related shooting One person was shot dead and another injured in a gang-related shooting in Valhalla Park, Cape Town, on Thursday morning. WATCH: Eyewitness films dramatic scenes after M1 Joburg shooting Two people are recovering in hospital after a shooting on the Jan Smuts offramp of the M1 north highway in Johannesburg. VIDEO FROM THE SCENE: Three men injured in apparent hostage drama at Randfontein church A man was shot and two others were injured while trying to escape an alleged hostage situation at a church in Randfontein, Johannesburg. WATCH: Criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik shot dead outside Green Point school Reports have emerged that lawyer Pete Mihalik has been murdered in a Cape Town shooting. WATCH: New footage shows armed men fleeing after Joburg M1 shootout New footage has emerged giving further insight into the shooting on Johannesburg's M1 on Monday. WATCH: Shop owner shooting a 23-year-old boy results in a community uprising in Johannesburg, SA Two people have been shot dead during ongoing violence and shop looting in Dobsonville, Soweto on Wednesday afternoon, police told News24.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.