Tammy Petersen WATCH: Support for Sans Souci teacher following court appearance The teacher charged with the assault of a Sans Souci Girls High School pupil, as well as the teenager she slapped, made their first appearances in the Wynberg Magistrate's Court on Wednesday. The teacher charged with the assault of a Sans Souci Girls High School pupil, as well as the teenager she slapped, made their first appearances in the Wynberg Magistrate's Court on Wednesday. The pupil's matter, which was held in closed court as she is a minor, was heard at the same time that her complainant appeared, both on the same charge. Dressed in a crisp white shirt covering her tattooed arms, Clarissa Venter, 34, stared down at the ground as her matter was heard. READ: Slapped Sans Souci pupil lodges Equality Court complaint against teacher, school governing body WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. She was represented by attorney William Booth, who requested a final postponement. The case was postponed to April 18 for further investigation. A clip of the altercation, which went viral on social media, shows the teacher asking the pupil where her book is, and the girl replying that she doesn't have one. The teacher has words with her about this and grabs her cellphone, which she has in her hand. "You want to challenge me, my dear, you are going to get last [sic]," the teacher tells her, after putting the cellphone on her desk. "I've been where you've been. Yes, I have three degrees - two, working on my third one. You don't even have a book in Grade 9." The teacher refers to the school's code of conduct, holds it up and tells the pupil she knows the rules about cellphone use. The girl accuses the teacher of swearing at her, and the teacher asks her what she supposedly said. The pupil asks the teacher not to shout at her, and the teacher orders her to leave the classroom. 'Throw it ma'am. Make me' The girl says something inaudible, and the teacher asks if she is swearing at her. The pupil says she is. The two have words, and the teacher returns the girl's phone, before taking it back, threatening to throw it. "Throw it ma'am. Make me," the girl says, and the teacher pulls her table back, before pushing it back into place. The teacher insists that the pupil leave the classroom, and the girl pushes her table into the teacher's legs and gets up. The girl then pushes the teacher with her shoulder, apparently reaching for her phone. The teacher slaps the pupil, before grabbing her by the front of her shirt. The girl holds on to the teacher's arm and tells her, "You hit me!", and the teacher replies that the girl pushed and swore at her. Venter still faces a disciplinary hearing, where Booth will also be representing her. Both she and the pupil have been suspended. Supporters greeted Venter and Booth outside the court on Wednesday. One woman from Lotus River, Yvonne Williams, embraced Venter as she was leaving.  A woman from Lotus River, Yvonne Williams, embraces Clarissa Venter in support outside the Wynberg Magistrate's Court. (Tammy Petersen, News24) KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter SA's top matriculant missed half the school year due to a rare disease After missing almost six months of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker managed to nab the coveted spot of SA's best matriculant. #OurLostChildren: Remembering Sadia Sukhraj - killed in botched hijacking Moments of quiet reflection, smiling faces and tears dominated those who spoke out about the life and personality of a slain 9-year-old KwaZulu-Natal girl. WATCH: SA Human Rights Commission reacts to the Hoërskool Driehoek tragedy The SA Human Rights Commission will launch a probe into a walkway collapse at a high school in Vanderbijlpark, that killed four children last week. Grieving Parkland mother heals through advocacy In the year since her daughter was gunned down at a Parkland high school, Lori Alhadeff won a seat on the local school board and started a foundation to make schools safer. She keeps a dizzying pace, saying the advocacy helps with her grief. Nine-year-old girl suffers from 'exorcist syndrome' A mum has recalled the terrifying moment when her daughter started thrashing about in Asda, like a child 'possessed,' leading to a rare diagnosis of 'exorcist syndrome'- triggered by severe tonsillitis. Duke of Cambridge wowed by little girl's sparkly shoes During his visit to Evelina London Children's Hospital, the Duke of Cambridge told a little girl in a wheelchair that her shoes were "very cool" and that Princess Charlotte would love them. Turkey's Maarif Foundation hosts first graduation ceremony in Afghanistan In Afganistan, where 3.5 million children are out of school, these high school students from an Afghan-Turkish school are celebrating their graduation. China's youth embrace street dance amid hip-hop crackdown In China, where children are often saddled with a packed schedule of extracurricular activities before they even enter grade school, some parents are making room for a surprising pursuit: hip-hop dance classes. What's changed with school league tables? Robert Cuffe, BBC News head of statistics, explains new-style secondary school league tables for England. Celebrity Closeup: Kristen Bell Actress Kristen Bell was born in the suburbs of Detroit, Michigan. As a child, she hated her first name, and used her middle name Anne instead until she reached high school. Celebrity Closeup: John Krasinski Growing up just outside of Boston, Massachusetts, John Krasinski made his stage debut in sixth grade as Daddy Warbucks in a school production of 'Annie'. He went on to study theater and playwriting in college, even spending time training with the ... Aunts praise Jayme Closs' strength, power The aunts of Jayme Closs, a 13-year-old Wisconsin girl who escaped after being held against her will for three weeks, are praising her strength and courage. Lady Gaga inspired by bullies Lady Gaga's high school bullies inspired her role as struggling artist Ally in 'A Star Is Born'. Star File: Oscar Isaac Latino star Oscar Isaac was born in Guatemala, but raised in Miami, Florida. A rebellious youngster, Oscar soon found an outlet for his energy, playing guitar and singing in a band with his high school mates. John Krasinski says success of A Quiet Place makes him feel like a 'high school kid' Hollywood star John Krasinski has admitted that the reaction to 'A Quiet Place' has made him feel like a "high school" kid. Launch and Demo with Delane Parnell (PlayVS) Hear from Delane Parnell about the evolution of esports, and check out the high school esports platform for the very first time. Up to 10 dead in Texas school shooting A school shooting in Texas has killed eight to 10 people. Santa Fe High School near Houston was put on lockdown at around 8am. Police say two people believed to be students have been detained. The high school head who opened a laundry Akbar Cook realised students were missing school out of fear of being bullied for their dirty clothes, so he found a solution. Hollywood's Fresh Faces: Lakeith Stanfield Rising star Lakeith Stanfield grew up in a tough neighborhood. In high school, he didn't have many friends because he says the other kids were just interested in fighting and starting riots, so he found refuge in the drama club. Drake to executive produce teen drama 'Euphoria' Actor turned rapper Drake is returning to high school to executive produce a new TV series starring Zendaya. Japanese students produce virtual reality sequence of Hiroshima attack Japanese high school students have produced a five-minute virtual reality experience that recreates the sights and sounds of Hiroshima before, during and after the US dropped an atomic bomb on the city 73 years ago. Cate Blanchett was forced into acting Cate Blanchett believes she was pushed into acting because she actually wanted to travel the world when she left high school. Texas student: 'I ran as fast as I could' Two Santa Fe High School students describe the immediate aftermath of the mass shooting on their campus. Drake still texts his high school teacher Drake has revealed he still texts his high school teacher - despite dropping out of school to pursue his career - as she congratulated him for his recent chart success. 2017's most complained about ads Take top five most complained about ads of 2017. From a total of 29,997 complaints, these ads provoked the greatest number of individual complaints to the Advertising Standards Authority. Ada Hegerberg, football's golden girl from Norway She first took to the pitch as a pesky little girl who followed her big sister everywhere. Today she is the top female footballer in the world, crowned with the first women's Ballon d'Or. Ada Hegerberg has captivated the football world, a "serial ... Top 10 Good Boy/Bad Girl Movie Couples These men made a fatal mistake. For this list, we’re looking at big screen couples that personify the "good guys want bad girls" trope. While not necessarily angels, the guys are basically boy scouts next to these ladies. Spoilers will be kept to a minimum, but certain characters hide their true colors until the film's second half, so be prepared. Also, we’re using the term ‘couple’ loosely, meaning that the people involved don’t have to be in a relationship per se, but at least be potential love interests and/or share romantic chemistry. Avenatti says 2nd R. Kelly tape shows sex assault of a minor Lawyer Michael Avenatti says he gave prosecutors a second video tape that allegedly shows R. Kelly engaging in the sexual assault of a minor. The R&B superstar pleaded not guilty to 10 counts of aggravated criminal sex abuse against four victims, ... Rita Ora to recruit fellow female pop stars for Girls music video Rita Ora will revive girl power by getting all of her fellow music musicians to star in her music video for 'Girls'. Rob Kardashian staying healthy for daughter Dream Rob Kardashian wants to "stay healthy" for the sake of his little girl Dream. Teens on how social media could affect well-being of students The Toronto District School Board says social media use is one area of concern as new data indicates a decline in students’ well-being. One high schooler says turning off phone notifications is one way he maintains “balance.” WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. Lost deer causes chaos at school CCTV captures the moment an open door at Enterprise High School in Missouri tempts a lost deer, which tumbles over as it hurtles along a corridor. The school's principal said the animal was going 'full throttle'. Spurned advances may have provoked Texas shooting A teenaged boy who shot and killed eight students and two teachers in Texas had been spurned by one of his victims after making aggressive advances, her mother told the Los Angeles Times. Khloe Kardashian reveals baby name Khloe Kardashian will call her baby Tristan Jr. if she has a boy, but has no idea what name to bestow upon a little girl. Celebrity Closeup: Octavia Spencer Octavia Spencer grew up in Montgomery, Alabama, the sixth of seven kids in her large family. She was in the drama club in high school, then at college studied English and journalism as well as theatre. High School Students Robotics Teams High school students from Bellarmine College Preparatory, Davis High School and Hercules High School present their robotics projects. Grandfather’s ashes baked into cookies: police A California high school student is accused of baking her grandfather's cremated remains into a batch of cookies and handing them out to classmates who ate them. Philippine court jails police officers for drug war murder A Philippine court has found three police officers guilty of murder in the killing of a 17-year-old high school student last year. #Duterte #Philippines #drugwar Philippines court hands down first murder verdict against police in drug war A Philippine court on Thursday found three police officers guilty of murder for the killing of a 17-year-old high school student, the first such conviction in President Rodrigo Duterte's war on drugs. Four charged for plotting attack against Muslim community in New York Three men and a high school student were charged with plotting to attack a rural upstate New York Muslim community named Islamberg with explosives. #Islamophobia #Islamberg #NewYork Philippine court jails officers for drug war murder A Philippine court finds three police officers guilty of murdering a 17-year-old high school student last year, as part of President Rodrigo Duterte's war on drugs. Teacher recalls shooting victim Reese Fallon as friendly, kind A Grade 12 teacher of Toronto shooting victim Reese Fallon says he remembers the 18-year-old as "witty" and a leader at school. Fallon, who graduated from Malvern Collegiate last month, was killed in the Sunday attack. Study shows vaping boom in teens Twice as many high school students used nicotine-tinged electronic cigarettes this year compared with last year, an unprecedented jump in a large annual survey of teen smoking, drinking and drug use. Six sets of twins dominate one high school basketball team A feature on Wednesday (28th November) at Splendora high school in Texas, where six sets of twins have dominated the school's basketball schedule. From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg. Tears at vigil for Texas victims Memories are shared at a vigil for those who died when a pupil opened fire at Santa Fe High School. Where the Mean Girls Characters Would Be Today What do you think happened to the students of North Shore High School after graduation? For this list, we’re playing out a “what if” scenario and looking at what we imagine would have happened to each of our favorite “Mean Girls” characters after the events of the movie.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.