Canny Maphanga ER24 vehicle. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories An 18-year-old pupil at Dowerglen High School in Edenvale has been rushed to hospital by paramedics after being hit in the chest by stray bullets as cable thieves ran through the school trying to evade security guards on Wednesday. "It is understood that he was sitting in the classroom when they heard the gunshots. The boy was hit in the chest and immediately rushed to the clinic," ER24 confirmed in a statement on Wednesday. The perpetrators were stopped in nearby Dunvegan on suspicion of being cable thieves and allegedly shot the pupil while trying to flee the scene, according to the Bedfordview community policing forum. This photo shows the window through which a bullet travelled before hitting an 18-year-old Dowerglen High School School pupil. Ekurhuleni emergency services received a call at 11:07 and on arrival found the boy had sustained upper chest wounds. "We found that one of the wounds was an entrance and exit. In the other wound, the bullet was stuck on the upper arm. "The boy has since been transported to Edenvale Medical Hospital for further care," spokesperson William Ntladi told News24 on Wednesday. Emergency services said another pupil had to be taken to the same hospital for shock following the incident. Two more pupils were given medical treatment on site. Police officers are on the scene, but officials say they will only be in a position to comment later this afternoon. The Gauteng department of education confirmed that three suspects were arrested and a search for a possible fourth suspect is underway. Parents have since been informed and all learners of the school have been accounted for. "Our Psychosocial team is providing the necessary support and counselling to the school. "The department sincerely thanks members of the community for assisting the school and will continue to monitor the situation," Spokesperson Steve Mabona said in a statement on Wednesday. More information to follow. The story is developing. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.