Pieter du Toit African National Congress (ANC) President Cyril Ramaphosa and former President Jacob Zuma toast during the African National Congress' (ANC) 107th anniversary celebrations at the Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban on January 12, 2019. - The new head of the ruling ANC and President Cyril Ramaphosa,pledged in tackling unemployment, poverty and inequality. South Africans go to the polls in May 2019. (Photo by Rajesh JANTILAL / AFP) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories At one stage on Wednesday television news channel eNCA had a four-way split screen. The channel’s executive producer had a choice of three inquiries and a court case to choose from: the state capture commission, the inquiry into Nomgcobo Jiba and Lawrence Mrwebi, the commission into the Public Investment Corporation and the high court application by ‘premier league’ heavy Supra Mahumapelo to nullify the ANC’s Nasrec conference. And a couple of weeks ago the Nugent commission into the affairs of the South African Revenue Service concluded, which found that what was once the jewel in the crown of state had been gutted by Tom Moyane, a former prisons boss and friend of Zuma. And in Parliament the Portfolio Committee on Public Enterprises started chipping away at the feeding trough state-owned enterprises became under Zuma’s corrupted leadership. Eskom, Transnet, the SAA, the SABC, Denel – balance sheets all massacred.  These commissions, inquiries and investigations have laid bare the depravity and bankruptcy of Zuma’s nine years as head of state. Individually, and collectively, they represent serious crises of leadership, corruption, gangsterism and thievery. The Zondo commission has, since last year, heard damning testimony implicating not only Zuma, but most of the governing ANC’s entire leadership. They have been bought with frozen chicken, handbags, cash payments, alarm systems and cars. They have been active participants in indulging Zuma’s worst excesses, defending and protecting him and accusing those exposing corruption of being part of some nefarious campaign by Western imperialist forces to effect change in a sovereign African country. The Zondo commission however is a daily, embarrassing, transparent and very public indictment of the party of liberation’s descent in cronyism, denialism and criminality. The Mokgoro inquiry into the fitness to hold office of Jiba and Mrwebi, both deputy national directors of public prosecution, confirms reports and allegations of the last nine years how the National Prosecuting Authority was repurposed to protect and defend sectional interests, mostly that of Zuma and those connected with him. The Zondo commission heard how Myeni showed the Bosasa corruptors confidential documents to help them plan their escape. And the Mokgoro inquiry heard how the practice to prosecute those who were fighting corruption (Anwa Dramat, Johan Booysen, Robert McBride, Shadrack Sibiya, Glynnis Breytenbach) became entrenched under Jiba and her boss, Shaun Abrahams. The ANC has been at pains to try and separate party and state – perhaps for the first time in its history, given the aims of the National Democratic Revolution and its policy of cadre deployment – in order to create the impression that the legions of ANC leaders and officials who are implicated in state capture and grand corruption somehow acted on their own.  The party’s spin doctors, who in the past breathlessly decried media reports of the Guptas’ influence on Zuma and the ANC as lies and dastardly and dishonest attempts to smear the party, is now tip-toeing around journalists at the Zondo commission, politely explaining that the party is shocked about the revelations and how action must surely be taken. But also, South Africans must – please! – understand that these commissions have no bearing on the ANC and that it does not mean the ANC is corrupt. These individuals must be held accountable because they acted on their own. It isn’t the party that’s in the wrong! And not to be left out, Zuma himself this week took umbrage at criticism by President Cyril Ramaphosa that his term of office was ‘nine wasted years’. They were actually quite successful, he argued. And then he followed that up with an interview tying him to the ANC, saying if you criticise him, you criticise the ANC. Well, there you have it. The party’s former leader, one of its major campaigners ahead of the election and fast becoming a big player on social media, dragging it back into the morass of ANC government corruption and lying and thieving being laid bare in the myriad of inquiries running concurrently. In August 2016 the ANC was punished during the municipal election. It lost control of three major metros and its popular support (local government elections aren’t really a good indicator compared to general elections, but still) dropped to under 55%. Zuma was at the zenith (nadir?) of his piracy and the electorate had seemingly stomached enough.  But a little more than two years hence and some polls are indicating a return to form for the party of Mandela, Sisulu and Tambo. Polling commissioned by the Institute for Race Relations, as Gareth van Onselen pointed out on Thursday, shows an uptick for the ANC and it seems it is largely driven by perceptions around Ramaphosa as cleaning up the mess left by Zuma (although there have been no arrests, no raids, no prosecutions and certainly no sentencing of state capture criminals). But the ANC’s insurance policy against the sludge released by Zondo, Nugent, Mokgoro et al. will remain apartheid. The party, at every election since 1994, has been able to leverage its historical role as the leader of the resistance and liberation movement in order to not only survive at the polls, but thrive. It is gearing up to do the same come May.  Chronic underdevelopment, lack of services, poor education, a weak economic outlook with a hobbled entrepreneurial culture…all of it can be directly linked to this government’s maladministration. But it can also be linked to the ravages of our pre-1994 history, with the backlog so enormous that it will take generations to overcome. Although it does not absolve the ANC and its government, it does provide a release-valve and diversion for a party that, according to the New York Times, has become ‘synonymous’ with corruption. The ANC knows its biggest asset is its distant past and its biggest liability present day. With Ramaphosa saying the right things and the electorate seemingly less than enamoured with the opposition, it knows exactly what to do. Even with the PR disaster that Zondo et al. is supposed to be. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part1) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part 2) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part 3) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. LISTEN: Bosasa bosses Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma [WITH SUBTITLES] In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma. The Zuma presidency: Scandals and successes Jacob Zuma has faced some controversies during his time as ANC leader. Zuma on land: Less debate, more nationalisation Former President Jacob Zuma said there is too much debate about land expropriation without compensation to his liking, and suggested that land should be nationalised. Power outage risk rising - South African utility Eskom South Africa's power company Eskom says the risk of nationwide electricity outages has increased significantly due to a sharp fall in coal stockpiles. S.Africa: J. Zuma arrives at his hearing over corruption charges Former South African President Jacob Zuma arrives at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of fraud, racketeering and money laundering. 1ST South Africa's Zuma says he will resign 'with immediate effect' South Africa's President Jacob Zuma has said he will resign "with immediate effect".

Mr Zuma made the announcement late on Wednesday in a televised address to the nation. S Africa 'captured by corrupt elements' South Africa's President Zuma feels "anxious" about his future, says ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma's culpable homicide trial postponed to March The culpable homicide case against Duduzane Zuma was postponed to March 26 in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. SAfrica's Ramaphosa gives speech at ANC manifesto launch 1ST IMAGES of South Africa's Cyril Ramaphosa's speech at the launch of his party's 2019 election manifesto. The African National Congress (ANC), which has ruled since the end of apartheid 25 years ago, is tipped to win the election in May despite ... WATCH: 'Pay back the money' - MP's jeer at EFF's Floyd Shivambu in ironic turn of events EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu found himself on the receiving end of MP's jeering in Parliament on Tuesday, when he was heckled to "pay back the money" during a debate on the VBS Mutual Bank scandal. ANC launches election manifesto South Africa's ruling ANC party launches its election campaign on Saturday ahead of polls in May that it is tipped to win despite recently falling support, internal divisions and a sluggish economy. On Friday, party members including President Cyr... Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. WATCH: 'It's me, former president Jacob Zuma' - Zuma joins social media Former president Jacob Zuma says he has decided to "move with times" and join various social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. PARODY: Jacob Zuma sings Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word The closest SA may get to an apology from Jacob Zuma, is this parody of the president singing Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word. WATCH: Jacob Zuma arrives at court to support son Duduzane Former president Jacob Zuma arrived at the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday show support for his son Duduzane, who has been charged with two counts of culpable homicide.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.