Jenna Etheridge (Screenshot) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A man who was pulling a boat out of the water at the Oceana Power Boat Club in Granger Bay, Cape Town, got more than he bargained for at the weekend when his vehicle also had to be towed out of the water. The incident took place on Saturday morning and soon drew an audience which watched as the driver swam to shore. WATCH: Boat launch gone wrong - bakkie goes for a swim While it is not clear what caused the vehicle to end up in the water, it was not long before another bakkie came to the rescue and used a rope to tow it out. The club's committee and management confirmed to News24 that no one was injured and no damage was caused to the public slipway. They said the owner of the vehicle was not available for comment at this time.  WATCH: Spinning car that hit pedestrian found Police are investigating a case of carjacking after two women were highjacked in Mitchells Plain on Friday. WATCH: Passenger in BMW horror crash 'a real possibility' New footage of the horrific crash which saw street racer Taufiq Carr crash his speeding BMW M3 on the N1 in Cape Town last week indicate that a passenger may have been in the car. WATCH: Musician Jeremy Olivier gifts friendly newspaper salesman with a car Musician Jeremy Olivier and his family changed a magazine salesman's life by giving him their car  on Saturday. WATCH: Rhino charges and hits car Being a wildlife monitor, Sam Vorster gets to spend a lot of time amongst animals. That said, Sam has had two close calls with rhinos. All you need to know about the Hyundai Kona While the Kona shares a similar footprint as its Creta sibling, it is considerably lower and wider. The result is a much sportier, funkier compact SUV for similar money. VIDEO: New footage shows devastation after Cape Town N1 high speed crash New footage of the crashed BMW on the N1 in Cape Town has emerged on social media, this time showing the aftermath of the incident. WATCH: Used car dealership goes up in flames The New Year got off to a bad start for the owner of this used car dealership in Goodwood, Cape Town. 
Tony McGeer, owner of Mc Gee's Auto says he received a phone call in the early hours of January 2, alerting him to a fire at his dealership. The car life hacks you never thought of Sometimes, everyone needs a life hack - here are five that will benefit motorists everywhere. Kia to unveil new in-car tech for the future Kia Motors will preview a range of new technologies developed for the post-autonomous driving era at the 2019 Consumer Electronics Show next month. WATCH: Taxi collision leaves 1 dead in Ballito One person has been killed following a collision between a taxi and a light vehicle in Ballito on Saturday afternoon. Watch. Take a closer look at the new Porsche Macan S Porsche has expanded its range of compact SUVs with the addition of the powerful Macan S. WATCH: Motorist escapes hijacking, reverses into assailants' car Police are on the hunt for four men who were involved in a botched hijacking in the north of Johannesburg, last week. Top 12 finalists for the 2019 SA Car of the Year The South African Guild of Motoring Journalists has announced the finalists in the 2019 SA Car of the Year competition. Take a look at the 12 cars vying for the crown. The new Datsun GO has arrived in SA The people have spoken and Datsun has listened. The new GO launched in November has redesigned styling, new safety features and is a better car than before. Lexus Owners Club Cape Town rally together for a special send off Laurika Walters needed a car for her farewell and the Lexus Owners Club Cape Town stepped up for the special event. The Kia Stinger GT in 60 seconds With 272kW and a top speed of 270km/h, the Kia Stinger GT is the Korean brand's fastest car to date. Take a closer look at what makes this V6 so special. Meet the spectacular 383kW Porsche 911 GT3 RS Porsche has unleashed its seventh generation 911 GT3 RS in South Africa. The six-cylinder naturally aspirated engine delivers 383kW and 470Nm. Taste it! The Hyundai Tucson Hyundai has facelifted its best-selling compact SUV, the Tucson. Now, it's even more stylish, has improved engines and can be had in a choice of trim lines. What's not to like? WATCH: 2019 SA Car of the Year semi-finalists in 60 seconds The South African Guild of Motoring Journalists has announced the semi-finalists in the 2019 AutoTrader SA Car of the Year competition. 2019 SA Car of the Year semi-finalists in 60 seconds The South African Guild of Motoring Journalists has announced the semi-finalists in the 2019 AutoTrader SA Car of the Year competition. 2019 SA Car of the Year semi-finalists in 60 seconds The South African Guild of Motoring Journalists has announced the semi-finalists in the 2019 AutoTrader SA Car of the Year competition. WATCH: 2019 Car of the Year award nominees Renault Megane RS, Suzuki Swift, Nissan Micra..here are all the nominees vying for the 2019 Car of the Year crown. WATCH: Chasing Walter Rohrl in the Porsche 911 GT2 RS on the Portimao circuit in Southern Portugal Egmont Sippel chases legendary driver Walter Rohrl on the Portimao track in Southern Portugal in the Porsche GT2 RS at the International launch in 2017.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.