Riaan Grobler Prophet Shepherd Bushiri of the Enlightened Christian Gathering Church appears before the CRL (Cultural Religious and Linguistic) Rights Commission of inquiry. (Veli Nhlapo, Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Embattled pastor and self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri on Wednesday broadcast a video to supporters in which he spoke of "immense orchestrated attacks" he had been subjected to over the past five weeks. These included protests, calls for him to leave the country, and "my wife being poisoned to within an inch of her life". He did not elaborate on when the incident happened. Bushiri's spokesperson Ephraim Nyondo told News24 on Thursday he did not have specific information regarding the alleged poisoning of Bushiri's wife, Mary. Bushiri, 35, and his wife were granted bail of R100 000 each in the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court in Pretoria on Wednesday. The couple was arrested by the Hawks last Friday and face charges of fraud, money laundering and contravening the Prevention of Organised Crime Act (POCA). They had been held in custody since. Bushiri heads the Enlightened Christian Gathering Church. 'We have missed you' "We have missed you and we know you have missed us as well," Bushiri said. He was reading his prepared message from a mobile device with an open Bible on the desk before him. The video was broadcast on the Prophetic Channel, as well as Bushiri's various social media platforms. The "prophet" thanked everyone who had "stood by me and my wife over the past five weeks".  Bushiri said he could not go to sleep before addressing his congregants. "God has really been so faithful," Bushiri said. Thanks to supporters He then proceeded to thank those who "supported" him, including the South African presidency and the president of Malawi and the high commissioner, "who checked regularly" whether they were "in good spirits". Bushiri also said there were "many political parties" in South Africa "who always stood with us". ANC Tshwane chairperson Kgosi Maepa and Black First Land First (BLF) leader Andile Mngxitama have shown support for the couple. On Monday outside court, Mngxitama said: "As Black First Land First, we stand with the major one (Shepherd Bushiri). This is a systematic attack on the church and the prophet. "We are the only ones who have come out because we are on the side of the truth. We know that the major one is being prosecuted by this government because he is a black man who is successful out of his own effort and his blessings from his God," Mngxitama said. In his video address, Bushiri also thanked the media for their "support", referring specifically to the SABC, eNCA and News24, "who were always informing people fairly and accurately". Bushiri ended his broadcast with a Bible reading. Hawks spokesperson Hangwani Mulaudzi previously told News24 that the case against the couple was allegedly linked to offences of fraud and money laundering, as well as the contravention of POCA, which had allegedly been committed from 2015. The contravention of the act was in relation to Exchange Control Regulations, allegedly involving foreign currency of $1 147 200 (around R15m). City Press reported on Sunday that the Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU) – a branch of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) – had joined the legal fight against the controversial couple and had filed a preservation order application, seeking to seize their assets, pending the finalisation of the criminal case against them. Two sources familiar with developments reportedly said the AFU had already filed an application in the Gauteng High Court in Pretoria, seeking its permission to seize the Bushiris' luxury houses and cars, as well as the self-styled prophet's Gulfstream private jet, which is parked in a private hangar at Lanseria Airport outside Johannesburg.  WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral. WATCH: Artist Ayanda Mabulu arrested over 'blame it on the boers' painting Controversial artist Ayanda Mabulu, 37, was arrested outside the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) on Wednesday, following a display of his artwork stating, "blame it on the boers". WATCH: Freedom Park residents demonstrate outside Luthuli House Luthuli House in the Johannesburg CBD should brace itself for a "sleepover" if the Gauteng government doesn't address issues raised by landless residents of Freedom Park in the south of the city. WATCH: Truck carrying bitumen catches fire Part of the R21 near Irene in Pretoria was covered in a cloud of black smoke as a truck transporting bitumen caught fire. EXCLUSIVE: Daughter of apartheid cop accused of Timol's murder speaks out A daughter of apartheid-era policeman Joao "Jan" Roderigues, who will soon stand trial for the murder of apartheid activist Ahmed Timol, speaks to News24 about her role in alerting the Ahmed Timol Foundation to his whereabouts. S.Africa's EFF party supporters arrive ahead of Manifesto launch Supporters of South Africa's far-left Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) arrive at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve, Pretoria, ahead of the party's manifesto launch. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. WATCH: Bushiri 'a true man of god' - supporters Hundreds of devoted supporters of embattled self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri gathered outside court again on Wednesday to show their support. Watch. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. WATCH Hundreds of flamingo chicks admitted to SANCCOB for life-saving rehabilitation Over 2 000 abandoned and distressed flamingo chicks were jetted all over South Africa this week as part of a series of mercy flights from Kimberley after their habitat came under threat due to water problems. 'Our rail system has gone to the dogs' - DA protests at Prasa offices The Democratic Alliance held a picket outside the offices of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA) in Hatfield, Pretoria on Wednesday. Whistleblowers should still come forward says Hawks after Bosasa arrests ormer Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi, former correctional services CFO Patrick Gillingham, and Bosasa official Andries van Tonder, on Wednesday briefly appeared in the dock at the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court. WATCH: Mnangagwa and and his gangster must leave Zimbabwe alone - Zimbabweans A number of protesters marched to the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria on Wednesday in solidarity with their families who've been affected by the total shutdown in Zimbabwe.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.