Kaveel Singh Angry protesters stoned a security guard hut at the Durban University of Technology. (Kaveel Singh/News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban University of Technology's (DUT) management team and its student leadership have resolved to reopen the administrative functions of the institution's campuses on Monday, the university has said. All its academic activities will, however, remain suspended, the university said in a statement on Friday afternoon. Discussions between the student representative council (SRC) and management resumed on Friday morning. READ: DUT shooting: Security guards suspended after student dies Both the memorandum of demands and a memorial service for third-year student Mlungisi Madonsela, 20, were discussed. Madonsela was shot and killed after security personnel and students clashed at the university on Tuesday afternoon, leading to the temporary shutdown. As a result of the extensive discussions, both management and the SRC agreed to the partial reopening of the university on Monday. Continuing discussions This will allow the various administrative functions to resume, including on-campus registration and National Student Financial Aid Scheme and housing queries. Students with outstanding registration queries were urged to visit the campus registration venues. "All staff members are expected to report for duty on Monday morning. Discussions with all stakeholders will continue in respect of the resumption of the academic programme and the healing process," the management statement read. A memorial service for Madonsela will be held on Tuesday at 13:00 at a venue yet to be announced. The SRC sent a delegation to pay its respects to the Madonsela family in Jozini on Friday following a visit to the family home by university representatives on Thursday morning. "The final funeral details will be circulated to the public once the family has informed the university," management said.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.