Jenna Etheridge ANC Western Cape provincial secretary Faiez Jacobs. (Netwerk24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories On this day in 1990, the late statesman Nelson Mandela was released from Victor Verster Prison in the Western Cape, after 27 years behind bars for his fight against Apartheid. Provincial ANC secretary Faiez Jacobs said February 11, 1990 was the day that South Africa changed forever. "Comrade Mandela’s release was achieved through our struggles that had pushed the apartheid regime into a corner where they were forced to negotiate their way out of power," he said. "Mandela’s freedom from his prison cell was also brought about because of unrelenting pressure by our international allies." Marking the anniversary of the release, and with elections just a few months away, Jacobs said it was time for South Africa and the Western Cape to "return to Mandela's vision". Read: ANC in the Western Cape calls for unity in the tripartite alliance "His struggle, as well as that of those pioneers who shoulder-to-shoulder with him took on the might of apartheid was to establish a non-racial, united, non-sexist and fully democratic state. Those were the ideals he was prepared to die for," he said. "We are eternally grateful that he had lived to enter a new country. Here in the Western Cape we pledge to continue Mandela’s fight for a just society." Jacobs said they were optimistic of doing well enough in May's general elections to have a say in how the province will be governed. DA leader Mmusi Maimane said on Sunday it "has no intention" of governing the Western Cape in a coalition. "It will be a regression". Read more: ANC Western Cape takes jab at 'hypocritical' DA for Bonteheuwel rally Addressing the media after the last meeting of the party's federal council, Maimane said the council confirmed their targets of winning Gauteng and the Northern Cape, and retaining the Western Cape and growing their share of the vote nationally. On Sunday, it was announced that former Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille would lead Good's fight for the Western Cape. She launched the party in December 2018 and recently unveiled its manifesto. Good's Western Cape campaign launch takes place on Saturday, February 16. South Africa's Winnie Madikizela-Mandela dies aged 81 Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, a prominent anti-apartheid activist and the ex-wife of Nelson Mandela, has died at the age of 81. WATCH: President Cyril Ramaphosa unveils Nelson Mandela statue at UN headquarters President Cyril Ramaphosa has unveiled a life-sized statue of late president Nelson Mandela at the United Nations (UN) headquarters in New York, as South Africa celebrates Heritage Day on Monday. WATCH: Zille breaks ground on R3bn mixed-income residential project Western Cape Premier Helen Zille said the "pioneering" housing project expected at the site of the derelict old Conradie Hospital in Cape Town could "make or break" the current housing system. 'Our relationship went beyond politics' - Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest Mandela memories Zulu Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest memories of Nelson Mandela, on the fifth anniversary of Nelson Mandela's death. WATCH: Empowerment workshop brings out the Mandela in Cape Town youth In honour of Mandela Day, young people from around Cape Town were invited to a youth empowerment workshop at Cape Town Civic Centre on Tuesday. WATCH: Ramaphosa delivers Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture President Cyril Ramaphosa is delivering the 8th Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture.

The focus of the address is restorative justice in South Africa, 20 years after the Truth and Reconciliation Commission.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.