Duncan Alfreds Allen Walker has won a photography prize. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A South African photographer has won a top award for his work on sharks at the World Shootout 2018 awards. The competition is focused on underwater photography and Allen Walker beat out David Salvatori and Filippo Borghi (both from Italy) to claim the first prize in the Sharks category. "It's always nice to get recognition for years of work and dedication to try and master the art of underwater photography and photography in general, especially if it is only done as a hobby. Right now though, the fact that I have won a dive aboard trip to 'The Gardens of Eden', Cuba, something I could never afford, is just amazing. One big bucket list tick!" an ecstatic Walker told News24. His love for shark photography started when he saw a variety of shark species on the Aliwal Shoal in Umkomaas, KwaZulu-Natal. Walker said: "It was however, the likes of the BBC and NatGeos of the world that essentially got the pioneers of shark diving to find ways of attracting tiger sharks in for the filmmakers. This then progressed into a product that was offered to advanced divers and photographers. "Being involved in the industry and an instructor first, then taking up UWP (underwater photography) as a hobby, it was natural to photograph these animals."  Allen Walker has won a photography prize. (Supplied)  Allen Walker has won a photography prize. (Supplied)  Allen Walker has won a photography prize. (Supplied) 'Surreal' Walker's images capture the beauty of marine creatures and he believes it helps conservation efforts. "Most definitely, my images have made people curious; they have evoked a sense of serenity around the 'feared' shark; they have made visible what people cannot see and they have shown that you can work in very close quarters with these animals," he said. "More importantly, I have been able to take people on shark dives and show them firsthand how amazing these animals are. Most of my images are surreal and show the beauty of the animal and the ocean," he added. The competition started in 2005 and has so far awarded $1 000 000 in prizes, of which $260 000 has been in cash. The 2018 ceremony was held in Düsseldorf, Germany. Overall, honours for picture of the year went to Andy Schmid of Switzerland, selected by Petros Michelidakis, the director of the boot Dusseldorf show. For Walker though, his life and camera remains his daily motivation. "My camera keeps it real for me, grounds me and reminds me of what is important in life. It has also allowed me to meet great people, speak to great people and present to great people, but most importantly, be inspired by them, and hopefully I inspire others too."  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Shark researchers close encounter with great white Two shark researchers, who came face-to-face with what is perhaps one of the largest great whites ever recorded, are pushing for legislation that would protect sharks in Hawaii. Rare angel shark spotted off Welsh coast The endangered species has been found living off the Welsh coast. Great white shark surprises scientist Greg Skomal was searching for the sharks off the coast of Massachusetts when one breached beneath his feet. Thieves snatch shark using pram A horn shark was stolen from an aquarium using a baby's pram, the thieves carried it in a bucket leaving a trail of water as they left. Man who stole shark says it 'needed help' The man who stole a shark from an aquarium in Texas, US said he did it because 'it needed help'. Shark stolen from aquarium in pram returned Two men have confessed to snatching a small shark from a Texas aquarium's interactive touch tank. WATCH: Shark spotters: proactive initiative going swimmingly Naveron Lesch is on the lookout for the ocean's most dominant predator, one fully-trained member of a team of 30 Shark Spotters, a proactive early warning shark safety service operating on eight of Cape Town's beaches. Rare footage of baby shark filmed off Puerto Rico Scientists have discovered a baby shark still in its egg case during an exploration mission west of Desecheo Island in Puerto Rico. Man survives horrific shark bite by thinking of beloved fiancee A kickboxer who lost his right leg after a 'Jaws'-style shark attack, while spearfishing at sea, has told how thinking of his beloved fiancee kept him alive, as he nearly bled to death from his appalling injuries.
Dad-of-three Glenn Dickson, 27, a... Great White shark forces halt to South African surfing event Surfers scramble out of the water as a Great White shark starts taking an interest.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.