Tshidi Madia Vytjie Mentor testifies before the Zondo inquiry into state capture. (PHOTO: Deaan Vivier) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor will return to the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture on Tuesday for a question and answer session. It will be day two of her cross-examination at the inquiry, looking into claims that members of the controversial Gupta family used their close relationship with former president Jacob Zuma to capture the state and loot billions from South Africa. Legal counsel for two people are expected to cross-examine Mentor. Zuma's former adviser Lakela Kaunda, and Hawks official Mandla Mtolo, had applied to quiz the former parliamentarian. Mentor had claimed Kaunda was the person who called to set up her meeting with Zuma, which turned out to be one with the Gupta brothers. Mentor also accused Mtolo of once telling her that a case she opened against the controversial family and Zuma would not be investigated, unless she removed the former president's name. Agitated Mentor claims the Gupta family offered her the position of public enterprises minister if she would cancel SAA's lucrative direct route to India. She also claimed Zuma was in the house when this happened. The commission is investigating allegations against those said to have captured the state and the former president. It has placed the Guptas at the centre of a project which has stolen millions from the country. On Monday, an agitated and exhausted Mentor told the chairperson of the commission, Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, that the inquiry had taken its toll on her. ALSO READ: State capture inquiry: Mentor insists flight details are accurate despite discrepancies She was asked to give clarity on her August 2018 testimony. During cross-examination by commission evidence leader Mahlape Sello, Mentor conceded when told that Home Affairs records showed Atul Gupta was not part of the trip to China mentioned in her testimony. Mentor had claimed this was where she first met all the brothers. Mentor also challenged the accuracy of SAA records, which showed no details of her taking a round trip to Johannesburg from Cape Town, between September and October 2010. This was supported by Sello, who told the commission two other trips Mentor had taken via agencies in Parliament had not been recorded. Missing features When it came to the in loco inspection of the Gupta home in Saxonwold where Mentor, the commission, and the Guptas' videographer were joined by experts, it was found that none of the five features Mentor identified in the notorious family's home were there.  #StateCaptureInquiry google map images of the Gupta home in Saxonwold, Sello@attempting to guide Mentor through the images @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/SoIhniUSzm  Mentor complained that the experts had been given a narrow scope and that she had no idea that the inspection was just a visual exercise. "I was allowed to waste time for two and [a] half hours, to say to the experts to check there, check there…if I knew they were not going to come back, I would have made definite statements about the features," Mentor told Zondo. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Ramaphosa delivers Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture President Cyril Ramaphosa is delivering the 8th Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture.

The focus of the address is restorative justice in South Africa, 20 years after the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. WATCH: ANC paints Joburg yellow demanding service delivery Hundreds of ANC members from greater Joburg – in collaboration with alliance partners Sanco, SACP and Cosatu – are marching to the offices of Mayor Herman Mashaba, Premier David Makhura and Eskom to hand over memorandums demanding service delivery WATCH: Ramaphosa's reincarnated Scorpions a 'seminal moment' in SONA 2019 News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson calls President Cyril Ramaphosa's announcement that he will bring back a Scorpions-like unit to help root out corruption a 'major announcement' during post-SONA analysis. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). Zuma on land: Less debate, more nationalisation Former President Jacob Zuma said there is too much debate about land expropriation without compensation to his liking, and suggested that land should be nationalised. WATCH: 'Pay back the money' - MP's jeer at EFF's Floyd Shivambu in ironic turn of events EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu found himself on the receiving end of MP's jeering in Parliament on Tuesday, when he was heckled to "pay back the money" during a debate on the VBS Mutual Bank scandal. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma case postponed, Jacob Zuma, BLF show support Duduzane Zuma appeared briefly in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Friday. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma's culpable homicide trial postponed to March The culpable homicide case against Duduzane Zuma was postponed to March 26 in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday. WATCH: 'It's me, former president Jacob Zuma' - Zuma joins social media Former president Jacob Zuma says he has decided to "move with times" and join various social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. WATCH: Jacob Zuma arrives at court to support son Duduzane Former president Jacob Zuma arrived at the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday show support for his son Duduzane, who has been charged with two counts of culpable homicide.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.