Correspondent An NSRI member. (Lulama Zenzile, Gallo Images, Foto24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A man is still missing after falling off rocks into the surf near to Dappat Se Gat, between Gordon's Bay and Kleinmond in the Western Cape on Sunday evening. According to Alan Meiklejohn, NSRI Gordon's Bay station commander, NSRI Gordon's Bay duty crew were activated by the Transnet National Ports Authority (TNPA) following eyewitness reports of the incident at around 18:08. "The sea rescue craft Spirit of Surfski was launched and our NSRI rescue vehicle, the SA Police Services, WC Government Health EMS rescue squad, CoCT (City of Cape Town) Fire and Rescue Services Dive Unit, CoCT Lifesaving lifeguards from Koegelbaai, GB Med Sec ambulance services, ER24 ambulance services and the EMS/AMS skymed rescue helicopter responded. READ: Searches continue for drowning victims at KZN beaches "On arrival on the scene it was confirmed that a 25-year-old male from Zimbabwe, living in Cape Town, was missing in the surf." Despite an extensive air, sea and shoreline search no sign of the man has been found and a police dive unit will continue in an ongoing search operation, Meiklejohn said. Family of the missing man are being supported by police and the NSRI.  WATCH: Man desperately tries to save beached dolphin When Paul Gardiner spotted a dolphin stranded on a beach in the Eastern Cape, he didn't think twice before trying to rescue the animal. WATCH: 'Ho, ho, whoooa!' - NSRI to the rescue as Santa slips and stumbles off boat A jolly Santa Claus managed to do what he does best at a beach in Cape Town this weekend, putting smiles on many children's faces in a rather unexpected fashion. WATCH: SAAF helps Netcare911 hone their helicopter rescue skills in Durban Netcare911 and the South African Air Force's (SAAF) 15 Squadron held their annual refresher training session in Durban last week. WATCH: Beached whale was 'suffering, in process of dying' "We may never know why the animal was stranded," Lieze Swart of the Department of Environmental Affairs (Oceans and Coasts) told News24, after an 11m sub-adult Humpback whale beached at Yzerfontein earlier this week. WATCH: Rescuers save newborn baby girl in three-hour operation A newborn baby girl has been saved after emergency services conducted a three hour mammoth rescue from a storm drain pipe in Durban. WATCH: Rescue workers attempt to save baby from drain pipe A dramatic rescue of an apparent newborn is underway in Durban after passerby's heard the child's cries on Monday morning. WATCH: Pet dog dies in Sea Point apartment block blaze A Sea Point apartment was destroyed in a high-rise fire that was put out before it spread to the rest of the building on Wednesday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.