Ntwaagae Seleka People wait at the Department of Home Affairs. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories "If the job is big or small, do it well." This is the motto by which a Department of Home Affairs employee, who recently took social media by storm, lives. Nosipho Mkhupheka, who works as a supervisor, assisted 40 people beyond her working hours at the department's offices in Scottburgh, KwaZulu-Natal on Friday. Her efforts were so remarkable that they even attracted the attention of Minister of Home Affairs Siyabonga Cwele, who paid her a visit, taking her some chocolates and a bouquet of flowers. "I start my work at 07:15 instead of 07:30 and I normally knock off an hour or two after 16:00. I only leave the office after seeing that majority of our clients are being attended to. I didn't think that working after hours on Friday would attract so much attention. "I am grateful for the response and messages of encouragement I have received since then. I am not a person who loves social media but I was humbled when I was informed that I was trending," she said. The 53-year-old mother of four told News24 that she took her job seriously didn't like to see people ill-treated at the offices she works at. She has been working for the department for the past 30 years. "It is a part of my life to assist people no matter who they are. I always ensure that I attend to people with a smile. I am a supervisor at work and I must lead by example. "I can't stand and watch when clients are not attended to by my colleagues. I want people who visit our offices to leave satisfied, knowing that their problems have been attended to," she said.  My heart has been warmed by the trending story of Ms #NosiphoMkhupheka, who stayed & help the last 40 customers all on her own & with a smile on her face! You are my hero. #SouthAfrica needs more people like you. Thank you. We salute you.@TrendsJoBurg @brieflyza pic.twitter.com/pcCOm0wUtm   @HomeAffairsSA, so I'm not the only one that received this generosity and excellent service from Mrs Nosipho Mkhupheka. HA needs to acknowledge her wonderful work already. Once again God bless you Mah. @CyrilRamaphosa @PresidencyZA pic.twitter.com/Oe15IECnp1  Let’s make #NosiphoMkhupheka famous ???????????????????? https://t.co/VKgHV4ua8M  @ECRBreakfast Thank you so much South Africa ????The Minister of Home Affairs paid mum Mrs Nosipho Mkhupheka a visit today at work that you Marius Botha @CyrilRamaphosa @Ms_LynetteB @HawaMoya7 pic.twitter.com/TBY9Gzh3oS  #DHA Minister Dr Siyabonga Cwele pays an unannounced visit at Scottburgh Home Affairs where Ms Nosipho Mkhupheka works. Ms Mkhupheka hogged the spotlight after social media user Marius Botha posted that he was moved by her dedication to serve beyond office hours. ????????Wow!?? pic.twitter.com/DTuXyMGdy1  Ms Nosipho Mkhupheka getting well deserved recognition. From the mentioned Facebook post, I decided to go to Park Rynie to renew my passport.Don’t get me wrong, I had to endure some incredibly... https://t.co/Nv5uoX5uK7  Mkhupheka added that when they were short staffed, she ensured that people who visited their offices did not even realise it. "Some people arrive at our offices as early as 03:00 and I am not going to allow such people leave our building unsatisfied. It pains me to see clients returning the following day because they have not been attended to the previous day. "People spend their money and time to visit our offices and we must ensure that they must reap the benefits thereof. I have told myself that I am going to spend an extra two hours of my time to assist those who could not be assisted. "I am leading by example. I was born to serve the public and I am proudly doing that. We are government servants employed to serve people excellently." Staff to have empathy Mkhupheka encourages her staff members to have empathy for clients. "I preach that if we want to be treated well, we must first treat others well. I don't want to see colleagues harassing our people. I encourage them to have listening skills and try to provide answers to our clients," she said. Regarding Cwele's visit on Monday morning, Mkhupheka said she was excited that her work was recognised by the top office in the department. "He brought me beautiful flowers and chocolates. I will never forget this day. The minister embraced me and said he was proud of my work. He told me that I have painted a beautiful image of the department and should continue serving clients with respect and dignity," she said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Home affairs officials caught on their phones as people queue to be helped The Department of Home Affairs has said it will investigate after officials were filmed using their cellphones while on duty. WATCH: Ramaphosa calls on private sector to assist with the fight against corruption Corruption has become a big issue that has to be addressed by the whole nation, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Thursday. WATCH: Gift of the Givers brings Christmas cheer to families of slain police officers Gift of the Givers and Minister Bheki Cele brought Christmas cheer to families of slain police officers on Tuesday.
The families of the 96 officers killed in the line of duty in 2018 were given food parcels and wheelchairs. WATCH: Former employee accuses Transnet of racism, the freight rail says the claims are unfounded Thabo Rampyapedi a former employee at Transnet is accusing the parastatal of racism. Allegations of abuse at SA consulate in Munich after video shows employee attempting suicide Ill-treatment of staff at the South African Consulate in Munich, Germany has come under the spotlight after a video emerged of a woman trying to take her own life on the premises.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.