Tshidi Madia Former North West ANC chairperson Supra Mahumapelo at the Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg, he is challenging the NEC Decision to disband his NEC. (Tshidi Madia, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco) in the North West is not satisfied with the interim leadership structure in the province. Through a statement, Sanco provincial secretary Packet Seaketso said the organisation would no longer work with the provincial task team (PTT), which was in charge of the province. "The manner in which the PTT handles political processes is uncalled for and we can no longer tolerate the level of political opportunism and unilateral decision-making which is an antithesis of how the ANC conducts its political business," Seaketso said. The PTT was established last year after the ANC's national executive committee (NEC) decided to disband former premier Supra Mahumapelo's provincial executive committee (PEC). Mahumapelo had been forced to take "early retirement" as premier following violent protests and calls for him to step down – both as premier and ANC provincial chairperson last year. Unlawful On Wednesday, the Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg ruled that the decision by the ANC to disband the PEC in September 2018 was unlawful and set it aside. Delivering judgment, Judge Fayeeza Kathree-Setiloane said the applicants were entitled to relief and to reinstate the disbanded PEC within two days. The ANC indicated in a statement on Wednesday that it was studying the judgment READ: High court rules decision to disband ANC's North West PEC was unlawful Sanco previously expressed sentiments carried by many in the North West who wanted Mahumapelo gone. In a statement sent out on Wednesday, the organisation complained about former PEC member Mmoloki Cwaile being sworn in as a member of the provincial legislature, and claimed that he was not included in the reserve list. Seaketso also claimed that Cwaile's appointment was made without the knowledge of the PTT's convener, Job Mokgoro, who is also the premier, and without the approval of alliance partners. "This confirms our concerns that the co-ordinator of the PTT is running amok on sensitive matters that require collective engagement with the alliance," said Seaketso. Sanco has also accused the PTT of failing to suspended some of the mayors in the North West, who were allegedly implicated in looting at VBS Mutual Bank. "The PTT infights over who must come in has stalled the process. As a result, the mayors that were to be removed are still leading the affected municipalities," he said. ALSO READ: Supra Mahumapelo in talks with ANC to find political solution to court challenge    24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.