Tammy Petersen Renaldo Galant and Charlton Renier have made a brief appearance in the Western Cape High Court. (Christina Pitt, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The parents of a little Atlantis boy who was killed by a gunshot to his chest are disappointed because the two gunmen were sentenced to 12 and 20 years in prison. Renaldo Galant and Charlton Renier heard their fate in the Western Cape High Court on Monday, where Judge Tandaswa Ndita sentenced them for numerous convictions, including the murder of little Braydon Graaff, 2, killed in Atlantis two years ago. A stray bullet fired during a gang shootout hit Graaff in the chest while he was in the arms of his mother Rostan at a MyCiTi bus stop on October 22, 2016. Rostan's left wrist was hit. The State alleged that they targeted Dennic Hendricks, who fled and ran towards Rostan and a group of people as the shots were fired. He recognised Renier when he walked towards him that day as they had attended the same school. News24 previously reported that Hendricks ran away and the bullet hit his arm. Renier fired more shots and Hendricks ran in a zig-zag manner to avoid it. A doctor testified that the bullet damaged Hendricks' right lung and it was most likely still lodged in his chest. Ndita sentenced Galant to 12 years for the toddler's murder, while Renier was handed 20 years. READ: Prison gangster reveals details of 2-year-old boy's murder She took into consideration Galant's age – he was 17 years old at the time of the shooting – as well as the fact that both had already been behind bars awaiting trial for two years. Both were sentenced to 10 years for attempted murder, three years for the contravention of the Prevention of Organised Crime Act and five years for possession of an illegal gun and ammunition. Renier was also sentenced to five years for assault. These sentences will run concurrently to the murder charge. A disappointed Rostan had very few words on the steps of the court after the two men were sentenced. "I will never forgive them for taking my child. Nooit nie (never)," she said, withdrawn. Braydon's father, Brandon Spence, said he had expected a harsher punishment. "But it doesn't matter how long the sentence is. Everything stays the same. I am just glad it's done. I don't have to look in their faces again," he said. "Everything is done now. We are moving forward." The couple last year welcomed a new baby to their family. Spence, however, said they were too scared to stand in the street with their child or hand the infant over to anyone.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.