Ntwaagae Seleka Matric learners will return to school on Wednesday. (Canny Maphanga, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Sections of the Hoërskool Driehoek have been declared safe for learners and is expected to open on Monday. Gauteng Department of Education spokesperson Steve Mabona said head of department Edward Mosuwe is expected to announce later on Wednesday that pupils can officially return to class after the weekend. This is after structural engineers declared parts of the school safe. Mabona said parents had been alerted about the latest developments. READ: Hoerskool Driehoek tragedy: Education dept appoints structural engineers to analyse building "It will not be normal schooling when they return back to classrooms. It will be like a camp school. "We will take learners first into a reintegration phase. We are going to reintegrate them gradually. Counselling will continue to be offered," he said. @TeamNews24 #HoerSkoolDriehoek Tributes continue pouring outside and inside the school. T-shirt, flags, pictures and wreaths are hanging on the school fence in remembrance of the tragedy that occurred last week. pic.twitter.com/A3zGxH2Xix The school would not be operating on a full scale yet, he said. "We will be offering exercises that are playful to reintegrate them." One learner was discharged from hospital on Wednesday morning. Mabona said the learner was in a jovial mood when they visited him on Tuesday. Nineteen learners remained in hospital and Mabona said they were hopeful that some of them would be discharged soon. READ: Funeral arrangements for Hoerskool Driehoek victims announced On Friday, a concrete slab above a corridor linking two blocks of buildings came crashing down on 26 learners at the Vanderbijlpark-based school. The incident happened a few minutes after 08:00, when learners were heading to their classrooms from the morning assembly. Roydon Olckers, Jandré Steyn and Marli Currie died on the scene. Over the weekend, a fourth pupil, Marnus Nagel, succumbed to his injuries. Steyn will be laid to rest on Thursday, while Olckers and Currie will be buried on Friday.  WATCH: Hundreds gather for emotional night vigil at Hoërskool Driehoek Hundreds of people gathered at Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark for an emotional night vigil, after a concrete slab collapsed at the school, killing three children and seriously injuring 25 others. WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.