Kamva Somdyala WATCH: Holy Cross primary in Cape Town on fire Firefighters were called out to Holy Cross RC Primary School in the Cape Town CBD after plumes of smoke were seen emanating from the premises. Holy Cross RC Primary. (Kamva Somdyala, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories *UPDATE: A fire that broke out at Holy Cross RC Primary School in the Cape Town CBD has been extinguished. Firefighters were called out to the school on Thursday afternoon after plumes of smoke were seen emanating from the premises in Keizersgracht Street. "There are eight [firefighting] vehicles and 27 firefighters on [the] scene," City of Cape Town fire services spokesperson Theo Layne said. The school was evacuated and no injuries were reported. Staff members who had been evacuated told News24 they weren't sure where the fire started, but believed that it might have gained momentum in the library. The library is currently under construction. One staff member recounted seeing the fire start. She said she was making her way into the main school building when she first saw the blaze. At that point, she alerted fire emergencies. "It looked like the more they poured water, the more the fire gained momentum." All children inside were immediately evacuated. "It moved so quickly," said deputy principal Paul Roussouw. Roussouw said he lost all his teaching and learning material. "My class is gone," he added. Inside the building that burned were grades R, 4 and 7. Roussouw added that teaching would continue on Friday and counselling would be provided for pupils. Parts of the building remained standing. The roof was severely damaged in the blaze and many windows were broken.  (Kamva Somdyala, News24) WATCH: Mountain blaze breaks out in Camps Bay Firefighters responded to a blaze that erupted in The Glen area of Camps Bay on Thursday afternoon. Watch. WATCH: Pet dog dies in Sea Point apartment block blaze A Sea Point apartment was destroyed in a high-rise fire that was put out before it spread to the rest of the building on Wednesday. WATCH- Aerial footage shows Lion's Head fire aftermath Aerial footage shows Lion's Head fire aftermath taken from one of the Working on fire Helicopters WATCH: Fire engulfs Lion's Head Families living in Sea Point, Cape Town evacuated their homes on Sunday evening as the flames that engulfed the lower slopes of Lion's Head near Quarry Hill were coming down on them. WATCH: Video shows razed homes after fire sweeps through Hartenbos, Mossel Bay Two houses have been destroyed in a blaze in Mossel Bay's Hartenbos Heuwels. WATCH: Firefighters leave Overstrand with song and dance The firefighters who tirelessly battled to bring a raging fire in the Overstrand area under control have held a parade to thank the community for their support.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.