Ntwaagae Seleka Former president Jacob Zuma with Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories For more than 15 years, facilities management company Bosasa reportedly scored more than R12bn in questionable state contracts – and many were secured through the bribery of well-placed politicians and government officials. The Mail and Guardian reported that the controversial company - now known as African Global Operations (AGO) - benefited from several national and local government department deals, including the Limpopo Department of Social Development, the Gauteng Department of Education, the Northern Cape Department of Arts and Culture and the national Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. The newspaper reported that Bosasa's net of contracts was cast wide and included the installation of top-of-the-range fencing around prisons, managing databases, cooking for prisoners and the supply of stationery for Department of Justice and Constitutional Development officials. It's claimed that just under 10 000 invoices reveal how Bosasa spread its tentacles into every corner of the state, including education, catering, database management and the management of juvenile detention centres, amassing more than R12bn in just over 10 years. The company is said to have received money from close to 40 national and provincial government departments in payments ranging from R161 for security gate remote controls to a single payment of R124m for a fencing contract with the Department of Correctional Services. READ: Mantashe named in Bosasa scandal For the past five years, Bosasa has also been getting small payments of between R2 000 and R10 700 from contracts awarded to its subsidiary, Sondolo IT and Global Technology Systems, for stationery. The latest payment was on January 9 this year, the newspaper reported. Bosasa, led by CEO Gavin Watson, and its associated entities have received more than R7.2bn, in 6 515 payments, from the Department of Correctional Services since 2003 to date. It also netted close to R2bn from the Department of Home Affairs – made in 250 payments, the report reads. Out of about 10 000 payments analysed by the newspaper, which the Treasury provided from its database, the sum of government contracts invoiced by Bosasa and its entities between mid-2003 and the beginning of this year amounted to R12  282  374  003.  Agrizzi's Bosasa wingman on 'chicken' bribes, destruction of evidence and 'war chests' | @CowansView https://t.co/IEbfxKRE18 pic.twitter.com/ncnQVGVCha  According to the data, in January, at least 24 payments were made to Bosasa entities – the most recent being R5.7m from correctional services on January  24. Bosasa's most frequent payments were for food and catering. There were 1 348 food and catering-related payments, amounting to more than R1bn. During his testimony at the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture, former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi implicated senior government officials and civil servants. These included former president Jacob Zuma's close ally Dudu Myeni, Environmental Affairs Minister Nomvula Mokonyane, former prisons boss Linda Mti and National Prosecuting Authority deputy head Nomgcobo Jiba. Former chief financial officer Andries van Tonder told the commission this week that he had collected between R4m and R6m every month from Bosasa’s vault to use to bribe people. Van Tonder's testimony confirmed much of Agrizzi's revelations of the alleged bribery and criminality at Bosasa, News24 reported. Earlier this week, News24 reported that former Bosasa employee Frans Vorster told the commission Watson called on him to fulfil every request made by Patrick Gillingham - a former chief financial officer in the Department of Correctional Services. READ: Agrizzi: Does the truth lurk behind the bombshells and racism? The newspaper further reported that an attempt by the Treasury’s office of the chief procurement officer, Kenneth Brown, to have Bosasa blacklisted was allegedly blocked by Tom Moyane, who was prisons commissioner in 2013. Three years later, Bosasa had its most lucrative year when it invoiced departments for more than R1.2bn. There were 637 payments made during this time - most of them from the justice department. The largest single payment was R55m. The full tender eventually grew to R486 937 910. The newspaper said the Special Investigating Unit's report found that, because the tender was awarded at the end of the financial year, the fencing contract constituted "fiscal dumping" - when departments spend large amounts of money to use up their budgets. Daily Maverick has reported that AGO stands to make R415m from government contracts this year. LIVE: "Myeni was over the moon, very, very happy with the Louis Vuitton bag with R300k in it." - Agrizzi #StateCaptureInquiryhttps://t.co/cWGAh61TEBpic.twitter.com/D16fhRL6YH  LIVE: Witness tells #StateCaptureInquiry he had to delete footage of visit to Bosasa by Zuma, Myeni and Celehttps://t.co/DAYkaTjAfspic.twitter.com/HgMtgFhyhP WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi continues to testify at state capture inquiry - Day 2 The second day of testimony by former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi at the commission of inquiry into state capture is set to be far more explosive and damning for the ruling ANC party and his former colleagues. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry: Agrizzi continues his testimony, who will be implicated? Angelo Agrizzi has revealed more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson emerges as 'kingpin of bribes' Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson has emerged as the absolute kingpin in the Bosasa empire of bribes, intimidation and cold hard cash. ANALYSIS | #StateCaptureInquiry: Unpacking Agrizzi's testimony Watch as News24 investigative journalist Kyle Cowen and journalist Jeanette Chabalala unpack former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi's revelations at the state capture commission. WATCH: Agrizzi details unfair advantage given to Bosasa to secure 'one of the biggest' tenders Former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi is on the stand for the fifth day at the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. LISTEN: 'That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. LISTEN: That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. WATCH: Agrizzi, Watson paid regular visits to Mokonyane's house, along with R50 000 #StateCaptureInquiry | Angelo Agrizzi continues to reveal more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Bosasa and #StateCapture | Here's what you need to know... Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Former Bossasa COO unpacks the bribes Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi on Thursday detailed the money trail allegedly used for bribing state entities. WATCH | 'Every single contract was tainted with bribes' - Agrizzi testifies #StateCaptureInquiry The second day of testimony by former Bosasa top boss Angelo Agrizzi in the commission of inquiry into state capture continues. WATCH: Bosasa spent between 'R4m and R6m a month' in cash bribes - Agrizzi at #StateCaptureInquiry Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi testifies at state capture inquiry The Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture resumed on Wednesday with former Bosasa employee Angelo Agrizzi on the witness stand.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.