Kyle Cowan Former Bosasa top boss Angelo Agrizzi. Photo: Felix Dlangamandla (Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories What hides
behind the bravado of self-confessed racist and corruptor turned whistleblower,
Angelo Agrizzi? What motivates
a man to go from living in the lap of luxury, to abandoning the lavish
trappings of ill-gotten gains, in exchange for the witness box? And now that
he has turned his back on a life of subterfuge and corruption, do we believe
him? Do we trust this man enough to accept that the worst of what he has
revealed could be true? These are the
questions this journalist asked himself as the Machiavellian tale of grand
corruption woven by Bosasa was laid bare at the state capture commission over
nine riveting, shocking and exhausting days. Listening to
Agrizzi explain in a matter-of-fact demeanour how he and others, mainly Bosasa
CEO Gavin Watson, bribed their way into the history books of our young
democracy, one couldn't help but to lose hope in the people appointed to
safeguard our nation. In fact, what
has become most apparent is that we were pushed over the edge of reason and
justice onto the rocky crags of lawlessness many years ago. He is an
anomaly, the like of which are few and far between. How do you categorise this
man, who laid the bricks of a billion-rand criminal empire along with the people
he now accuses, only to turn around and reveal all? In Shakespeare's
Othello, Iago asks: "And what's he then that says I play the villain?" Iago is a
destructive character, who ruined the lives and careers of many. He manipulated
every person in his life, but his motives were complicated and even the
sharpest mind was never sure what they were. Sometimes
Iago, just like Agrizzi, gave an explanation for his decisions and actions –
but it never quite rang true. And in this,
Agrizzi is almost identical to Iago. He has been cast as the villain, the man
with dubious motives by the very men and women he now implicates. But perhaps,
motive in this case, is not the key factor. The
inescapable fact is we have now been handed an opportunity to strike a terrible
blow to the heart of the corruption that has plagued our public coffers for far
too long. It is a narrow
window of opportunity that we cannot afford to let slip through our grasp. In a
horrifying display of irony we are brought to this moment by a man who
confessed he was a racist, shortly before an audio clip confirmed his prejudice
against out countrymen and women. The clip
revealed the worst of the man we witnessed dishing dirt on presidents,
ministers, members of Parliament, as well as prosecutors. Bosasa bribed
them all, in exchange for the age-old motivator of greed – money. Cold hard
cash. The entire
sordid tale is based on greed, the need for more money, more tenders and more
bribes and when eventually in the crosshairs of the law, the need to stay out
of jail. Agrizzi
revealed it all, no holds barred. He explained
in detail who was bribed, how much they took and why they took it. There is no
doubt that Agrizzi is brave and risked everything, including his own life and
the lives of his children and grandchildren in coming clean. Questions also
shroud what really motivated him to come forward now, after 19 years at the
coalface of Bosasa's largesse. But put that aside for a moment. Separate the "nakedly
racist" tirade, collated and spread far and wide for the very purpose of
discrediting the man behind the testimony. Now ask: the
canary has sung, but is the tune convincing? There are two
reasons why Agrizzi can be believed. Firstly, no
man or woman can afford to lie in such a public forum. Consider the
exceptional levels of scrutiny his version will be under, and has been placed
under, not only from investigators and the commission's legal team, but from
scores of journalists and Twitterati. Agrizzi is
fully aware that every claim he makes will be placed under the microscope. There is
another, more compelling reason. Agrizzi will
undoubtedly be called upon again in a court of law to tell the same story,
speak to the same facts – but this time place himself in a position where a lie
could spell a lengthy prison term. It's that
simple. Nothing Agrizzi said at the commission can be used against him. But the stakes
will be infinitely higher when he is eventually called upon to appear before a
judge. In a court room, the lawyers aren't friendly and helpful – their purpose
will be to cut to the bone of every fact, every allegation and every nuance. And most
judges and prosecutors do not suffer fools or abide the wasting of time. Is Agrizzi
believable? Yes. He is. In the coming months
and as the legal tussles unfold, Agrizzi will do doubt be cast as the villain
and racist he was, and is. But those who
he has implicated will not be able to escape the wrath of the law. Agrizzi has
given us the tools to eradicate at least one grouping of corrupt South African
leaders. For his sins
and prejudice, he will be forced to account. And those he has implicated, will have to search for a
better argument.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.