Tammy Petersen and Riaan Grobler Police. (Photo: Getty Images/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Five teenagers - one of them the son a retired police officer – are expected to appear in the Polokwane Magistrate's Court on Thursday following the brutal murder of a Polokwane man whose bloody body was discovered in a street in Flora Park over the weekend. The suspects were arrested on Tuesday afternoon. According to police, the alleged mob attack took place on Saturday evening and the man succumbed to his injuries on Sunday. "To compound the ruthlessness of the attack on the man, not only are the suspects involved between the ages of 15 and 16 years old, but the incident was also filmed and posted on social media," the office of national police commissioner General Khehla Sitole said in a statement on Wednesday. READ UPDATE: Police nab five people for Limpopo mob murder A video of the victim being carried by a group of people had been circulating on social media, with Twitter users claiming the suspects involved in the attack were pupils from Capricorn High School. "The social media post also reflected one of the young suspects claiming to be a son of a senior policeman and that the police could do nothing about what he had done. The same suspect is now among those behind bars and he is the son of a retired SAPS warrant officer. His arrest is clearly indicative that nobody can claim to be above the law and expect to get away with heinous deeds." The suspects are in grades 9 and 10. They are facing a murder charge. National police spokesperson Brigadier Vish Naidoo told News24 on Wednesday that the victim's name should not yet be revealed as his next of kin had not yet been informed of his death. "We are also investigating whether he himself had been involved in a criminal act, so we are deliberately not naming him," Naidoo said. Son 'confesses' to retired cop father On Wednesday, TimesLive reported that the retired officer revealed his son confessed to kicking the man several times. The boy reportedly told his father that the victim had stolen a cellphone belonging to one of his friends. In the video the posted to social media a young boy can be heard telling people his father was "untouchable", but the former cop said this was untrue, Sowetan reported. The man is reported to have said his son has never been involved in crime. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Residents cry for help as man shot dead in Durban road A 32-year-old male suspect will appear in court on a charge of murder on Tuesday after a video shows Chatsworth community members crowding around a dead body in the street. Train stabbing suspect arrested Police hunting a knifeman who murdered a train passenger in Surrey in front of his 14-year-old son have arrested a suspect

The man was detained at an address in the Farnham area at around 6am on Saturday on suspicion of murder. A 27-year-old woma... Landfill searched for remains of missing woman Police are searching a Colorado landfill for the remains of a woman whose fiance is charged with her murder. Authorities said their search for evidence or the remains of Kelsey Berreth that began on Tuesday could take weeks. Costa Rica seeks to tackle violence with stricter gun control Costa Ricans defend the use of firearms as the government hopes to put in place a legal reform, which aims to tackle gun control in a country that suffered an alarming murder increase between 2012 and 2017. Lawyers representing Gargasoulas victims say the 46 year sentence isn't enough Arrival of James Gargasoulas at the Supreme Court of Victoria with departures of family of victims, and audio of a statement from Genna Angelowitsch - senior associate at AdviceLine Injury Lawyers on behalf of two of the families represented. Garg... USCG officer planned mass attack: prosecutors Federal authorities arrested a self-proclaimed white nationalist living in a Maryland suburb after he planned to "murder innocent civilians on a scale rarely seen in this country," court documents showed on Wednesday. Egypt executes nine men Egypt executed 9 political prisoners today after controversially finding them guilty for the murder of Egypt's former prosecutor general. International human rights organizations have condemned the execution. #egypt #muslimbrotherhood #morsi 11 arrested on suspicion of murder after stabbing in central London Eleven people are being held on suspicion of murder after a fatal stabbing in central London.

The Metropolitan Police said the male victim died at a hotel in Euston Street, Camden, on Monday night. RAW: Family of Patricia Riggs speaks outside court Members of Patricia Anne Riggs' family speak after her husband, Edmund Ian Riggs, was acquitted of her murder in 2001. He was instead found guilty of her manslaughter by a Brisbane Supreme Court jury on Wednesday. Her brother, Mark Knowles, calls for Riggs to reveal where the rest of her remains are. NSW police seek Hawi murder getaway driver Detective Superintendent Deb Wallace from NSW Police speaks to reporters in Sydney, appealing for help in locating the suspected getaway driver involved in the daylight assassination of former bikie boss "Mick" Hawi. Ms Wallace says the suspected getaway driver drove a Mercedes-Benz station wagon, which was later set alight, away from the scene of the killing. "We are hopeful that someone will refresh their memory and we encourage them to come forward to give us the information we need to put this puzzle together,” Ms Wallace says. The man is shown to have a distinctive gait which police believe is a significant identifier. Police lay first degree murder charge after death of 11-year-old girl Police say a Brampton, Ont. man who was supposedly helping his daughter celebrate her 11th birthday instead faces a first-degree murder charge in her death. The body of Riya Rajkumar was found in the home of Roopesh Rajkumar shortly after an Amber... WATCH: Three accused of murdering Mihalik appear in court The three men accused of Pete Mihalik's murder - Vuyile Maliti, Sinozokohle Biyela and Nkosinathi Khumalo - appear in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Friday 15 February 2019. Myanmar: Men accused of Ko Ni murder arrive at court The men accused of plotting the 2017 murder of Ko Ni, a Muslim lawyer and senior advisor to Myanmar's civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi, arrive at a Yangon court where a verdict is expected for their trial which has lasted almost two years. Gunfire pierces San Diego restaurant, no one hit San Diego police say it was "quite a blessing" that no one was hit when a gunman opened fire on a restaurant Tuesday night. Police recovered a weapon and 19 shell casings and arrested a suspect. Today in History for February 13th Highlights of this day in history:  Bruno Richard Hauptmann convicted in the Lindbergh baby kidnap-murder; The World War II bombing of Dresden begins; Konstantin Chernenko becomes Soviet leader; Peter Gabriel born; Waylon Jennings dies. CCTV shows last movements of child killer before alleged murder by neighbour Police have released CCTV footage showing the movements of a child killer just hours before he was allegedly murdered by his neighbour.

David Gaut, 54, was stabbed more than 150 times while still alive, a further 26 times after he died, and his f... Ukraine murder charge; Hungary birth rate boost; and Brexit latest Here is our round-up of key stories across Europe so far today. 'Evil' Canadian jailed for life in gay village killings: reax Victims' relatives react on Friday as a Canadian landscaper is jailed for life for the murder and sexual mutilation of eight men from Toronto's gay community whose bodies he dismembered and hid in planters. Suspect in 4 Nevada killings to be tried in Reno A 20-year-old Salvadoran man will be tried on four murder counts in Nevada. Wilbur Martinez-Guzman, accused of murdering four people, appeared in a Carson City court Friday. He also faces burglary charges in Nevada. (Feb. 80 Alexandre Bissonnette sentenced to serve 40 years in prison The man who opened fire during evening prayers at a Quebec City mosque in 2017 has been sentenced to serve 40 years in prison before being eligible for parole. Quebec Superior Court Justice Francois Huot called Alexandre Bissonnette's attack gratu... Woman says she aided man charged in fiance's death A woman admitted Friday that she helped thwart an investigation into the disappearance of a Colorado woman who authorities believe was killed by her fiance, but her motive and the nature of her relationship with the suspect remains a mystery. Loved ones of Bruce McArthur's victims react to sentencing Loved ones of Bruce McArthur's victims were at court for his sentencing to life in prison with no chance of parole for 25 years. The serial killer pleaded guilty last week to killing eight men between 2010 and 2017. Bruce McArthur sentenced to life in prison with no parole for 25 years Bruce McArthur has been sentenced to life in prison with no parole for 25 years. The serial killer who murdered eight men from Toronto's gay village won't be able to apply for parole for until he is 91-years-old. McArthur pleaded guilty last week ... Khashoggi killing was "premeditated" by Saudi Arabia - UN UN rapporteur Agnes Callamard, responsible for looking into the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi, has said the murder was "planned and premeditated" by Saudi officials. #Khashoggi #SaudiArabia #UN Khashoggi's fiancée releases book about slain journalist The fiancée of Jamal Khashoggi, Hatice Cengiz, releases a book about the murdered Saudi journalist, entitled "Jamal Khashoggi: his life, his struggle, his secrets". Judge rules on child custody in murder case A Colorado judge has decided that a 1-year-old girl will continue to stay with her maternal grandparents as prosecutors pursue a murder charge against the girl's father, Patrick Frazee, for her mother's death. Trial over Myanmar Muslim lawyer murder draws to close Suspects accused of the 2017 murder of Ko Ni, a Muslim lawyer and senior advisor to Myanmar's civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi, arrive at court in Yangon to hear the final arguments in their trial which has lasted nearly two years. ‘Mixed feelings’ after Bruce McArthur guilty plea: Police Toronto Police Det. David Dickinson says he hopes Bruce McArthur’s guilty plea on Tuesday means “closure.” McArthur pleaded guilty to eight counts of first-degree murder in the deaths of men who went missing from Toronto’s gay village. Salvadoran immigrant charged in 4 Nevada killings Prosecutors in Nevada said Monday they have filed murder charges that could bring the death penalty against a 19-year-old Salvadoran immigrant in four recent killings carried out over a six-day span. U.N. expert in Turkey for Khashoggi investigation The U.N. Special rapporteur on executions has begun a week-long mission to Turkey to head an international inquiry in to the murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi. UN rights expert in Turkey over Khashoggi murder UN special rapporteur on extra-judicial, summary or arbitrary executions, Agnes Callamard meets Turkish foreign Affairs ministry Mevlut Cavusoglu to discuss the murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi. $500K bail set for suspect in 4 Nevada killings A judge has set bail at $500,000 for 19-year-old Wilber Ernesto Martinez-Guzman from El Salvador accused of possessing weapons and pawning property stolen from victims in four Nevada killings. Prosecutors say they plan to file murder charges Wade Skiffington ‘over the moon’ at release on bail: Father Wade Skiffington’s father says his son is elated to be released on bail 25 years after being convicted of second-degree murder in the death of his common-law wife in B.C. Ottawa is reviewing Skiffington's conviction after an appeal. 'Kisser' tag was a hindrance in my life: Emraan Hashmi Be it "Murder" or "Aashiq Banaya Aapne", films in Emraan Hashmi's early days in Bollywood saw him lock lips in multiple films.This led him to get the 'serial kisser' tag, which he says became a hindrance in his career after a certain time. Chicago cop sentenced to more than six years for Laquan McDonald murder A judge sentences former Chicago police officer Jason Van Dyke to more than six years in prison, after a jury found him guilty of murder last year in the 2014 shooting of black teenager Laquan McDonald. $5M bail set for suspect in murder-abduction case A Wisconsin judge has set bail at $5 million for the suspect in the abduction of 13-year-old Jayme Closs and the killing of her two parents. Gdansk locals in shock after brutal public murder of mayor Gdansk locals pray after the shocking public murder of their mayor Pawel Adamowicz. The Polish politician, who had been mayor for more than 20 years, was brutally stabbed in front of crowds of people at a fundraising charity event and died in hosp... Pompeo returns to Saudi over Khashoggi murder U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has once again visited Saudi Arabia's royal family regarding the murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. 21-year-old man charged in Wisconsin girl's kidnapping Twenty-one-year-old Jake Patterson has been charged with the kidnapping of 13-year-old Jayme Closs and the murder of her parents, authorities said on Friday, a day after the girl escaped following three months of captivity. Colette Luke has more. Sadiq Khan:'There can be no justification for this homicide' Sadiq Khan says "there can be no justification" for Jayden Moody's murder Former Dallas officer in court for murder case Former Dallas police officer Amber Guyger, who was charged in the fatal shooting of her unarmed black neighbor whose apartment she says she mistook as her own, arrived for a court proceeding in Dallas Tuesday. Man charged in murder of dad at CA campground A man already jailed for parole violations was charged on Monday with murdering a California father who was camping with his two young daughters. Michigan man pleads guilty to 6 murders in 2016 A Michigan man charged with killing six strangers between picking up rides for Uber pleaded guilty to murder on Monday, just before attorneys were set to interview jurors for his trial. Man charged with murder in death of Texas girl Harris County Sheriff Ed Gonzalez announced Sunday that prosecutors had arrested and charged 20-year-old Eric Black Jr. with capital murder in the death of 7-year-old Jazmine Barnes on Dec. 30. Gonzalez says a second suspect has been identified. Suspect held after man stabbed to death on train A suspect is arrested in connection to the Surrey train murder investigation Murder investigation launched after Surrey train stabbing A man had died after being stabbed on a train in Surrey. Custody hearing for child of Colo. murder suspect Authorities in Cripple Creek, Colorado, held a custody hearing for the 1-year-old daughter of a missing Colorado woman. The hearing was attended by Patrick Frazee, the woman's fiance, who is charged in her murder. AP Top Stories January 3 Here's the latest for Thursday January 3rd: China lands spacecraft on far side of moon; Democrats take over House today as shutdown continues; Man in court charged with murder of California police officer; Bus overturns in Mississippi.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.