Jenni Evans Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The City of Cape Town has urged residents to watch their water usage as consumption steadily increases amid dropping dam levels. "Dams that supply Cape Town have declined by 1.6% over the past week to 57.4% of storage capacity," the City said in a statement on Monday. Conversely, the average water consumption has gone up by 19 million litres per day to 633 million litres per day. "While we remain within our allocated allowance of 650 million litres per day, we need to exercise caution and continue with water-wise behaviour," the City stated. Although the situation is not as severe as last year when there were Level 6B restrictions, Level 3 restrictions are in place. Read: National water dept, City of Cape Town differ on water consumption level for next year This means: - Each person should not use more than 105 litres of water a day; - People should use a bucket if washing vehicles with drinking water; - Toilets must be flushed with grey water, rain water or other non-drinking water; - Commercial car washes must recycle or reuse a minimum of 50% of water used; - Residents must not water or irrigate with municipal drinking water within 48 hours of rain; - Residents must water and irrigate with municipal drinking water only on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays before 09:00 or after 18:00 for one hour maximum, using a watering can; - No hosepipes or sprinklers are allowed. Where to find the world's most crystal-clear water paradise spots Love island life? Here's where to find the world's bluest, blue waters. WATCH: Armed local farmer walks into demonstration in Greyton Western Cape police are probing an incident involving a man who was caught on camera on Monday, wielding a firearm during a demonstration in Greyton. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. WATCH: New toilet uses 2 litres of water instead of the average 11 litres A new toilet that uses only 2 litres of water instead of the average 11 litres could be a new fixture in South African homes. WATCH: How Do Clouds Make Rain? From evaporation to condensation, here's a fun experiment to explain to kids how clouds are formed and it eventually rains. WATCH: City Power suspects "deliberate acts of sabotage" at South African substation Johannesburg City Power says they suspect that the cause of the explosion at the Rand Water Eikenhof Pumping Station was a "result of a deliberate act of sabotage".   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.