Duncan Alfreds Xolisa Shenxani dreams about being a pilot. (BackaBuddy) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A young man's dream of becoming a pilot is one step closer to becoming a reality, thanks to a generous donation. Xolisa Shenxani has dreamt about being a pilot since he was very young. He was inspired to train as a pilot after meeting representatives from the South African Air Force during the Langebaanweg Air Show. READ: How 18-year-old Xolisa is chasing his pilot dreams However, his dreams were temporarily dashed after his mother's death when he was just seven years old, and he struggled to feel like he belonged anywhere. "In those challenges, I learned lots of lessons. It made me the person I am today. I told myself that I wasn’t going to give up, even though I was going through all the challenges that I was going through. My mother told me I must do my best in everything I do and that life isn't going to be easy," said Shenxani. Major boost His mentor, Philip Bellstedt, created a BackaBuddy campaign for him to achieve his dream of being a pilot. "My family and I have fully invested in Xolisa's future. My parents are always there to offer a hug, a sandwich, a lift or a word of encouragement. We all have high hopes for Xolisa's matric year, based on the progress he has made and his ability to embrace every opportunity that comes his way," Bellstedt said. The BackaBuddy campaign received a major boost on Wednesday. One person donated a whopping R100 000 toward Shenxani's dream of getting his wings.  For him, the donation means that the funding target of R187 800 - which will cover transport, food, textbooks and clothes - is now within reach. Shenxani's thoughts turn to being a young boy who dared to dream. "I used to look up into the air and see helicopters fly over my house, but I didn't know what they were. I thought, 'I would love to fly that thing,' but I wasn't sure if people could fly in it. "I remember, in Grade 1 or 2, a helicopter landed on the soccer field in Sir Lowry's Pass and I got to see inside of it. That's when I knew that I wanted to become a pilot!" Academic criteria He has worked hard to ensure he meets academic criteria to qualify for pilot training. "I never dreamed that I would be attending private school. It was hard being in my old school. In my maths class, we had over 60 students. Even though I tried to concentrate, I couldn't concentrate because there'd be some distractions - kids that didn't want to be at school would make noise - but the teacher wouldn't explain again; it was your problem; you had to figure it out yourself," he said. "It's much better in my new school. If you'd don't understand, they make sure you understand. The teachers go out of their way for you if you work hard - they'd do everything in their power to make sure that you succeed." The minimum requirements for training as a pilot or navigator with the South African Air Force are: Grade 12; between the ages of 18 and 22; medical fitness; and no criminal record. "Candidates will undergo a selection process and this entails psychometric evaluation, medical examination and a Formal Selection Board. An offer of employment will be extended to the most successful candidates," the organisation says on its website. Xolisa Shenxani (right) dreams about being a pilot. (BackaBuddy) "I believe that investing time and money in the future of a promising, hardworking child like Xolisa is a good investment. Xolisa's success will not only be to his benefit, but also to the benefit of his descendants and to those in the community who look up to him. My dream for Xolisa is that he reaches his potential and lives a happy, fulfilled life," said Bellstedt. BackaBuddy aims to create a charity model where people can make direct donations and the organisation manages funds to ensure that the beneficiaries receive the money to meet their needs. In 2018, over R35m was raised on BackaBuddy and more than 1 800 new crowdfunding campaigns were launched. The platform has raised R89.2m in total. "Funds raised are managed directly by BackaBuddy NPC and are paid directly to False Bay High School for Xolisa's education. Donors will also receive regular updates on Xolisa's progress should they wish to show their support," said Zane Groenewald, BackaBuddy Public Relations Officer.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Tiny S. Africa beach restaurant crowned best in world When it comes to fine dining, the isolated South African fishing village of Paternoster probably wouldn't be the first place you'd think of. And yet, a tiny beach restaurant in this town in South Africa's Western Cape has been crowned the world's ... Pilot killed when 2 jets collide at India air show A pilot was killed when two Indian Air Force jets collided mid-air and crashed in the southern Indian city of Bengaluru during rehearsals for an aero show. Winter weather disrupts mid-Atlantic air travel A winter storm is disrupting air travel in the mid-Atlantic region. Kruger buffalo flicks lion into air like a toy The predator – which looks like it's in dire need of a meal – was asleep when a buffalo charged at it and flipped it into the air before chasing it off. BUDGET SPEECH 2019: Some praise, some concerns and no holy cows... There was praise, criticism and questions post Budget 2019. Watch politicians, economists and CEOs react to Finance Minister Tito Mboweni's maiden address. South Africa pledges $4.9 bln Eskom bailout South Africa will give state power utility Eskom 69 billion rand ($4.9 billion) over three years, Finance Minister Tito Mboweni said while delivering the key part of the country's budget on Wednesday. Blast of winter weather hits Washington, DC A blast of winter weather hit Washington, D.C. on Wednesday, closing federal offices and local schools, disrupting air travel, and making roads hazardous for motorists.  Tourists, however, didn't seem to mind. S. Koreans getting fed up with military service Young South Korean men share their thoughts and concerns ahead of their military conscription that will last almost two years to serve a country that has been technically at war since 1953. The bulk of South Korea's 600,000-strong military are con... Cruising from Durban to Pomene - and the craziness in-between Onboard the MSC Musica, taking a trip from port city Durban in South Africa to Mozambique's tropical Pomene can be quite a madhouse holiday. Quick Guide to Zimbabwe Rich in wildlife and nature experiences, bursting with African pride and welcoming of all people, Zimbabwe offers more than just a safari getaway – it offers a slice of an authentic African experience. (Photos: iStock) Prince Harry meets children on visit to south London community centre Prince Harry puts in an appearance at a south London community centre as children enjoy a Fit and Fed half-term activity programme, with newly independent MP Chuka Umunna also in attendance. Quick Guide to South Korea If you want to visit a country where everything works on time, you can dive into the most delicious noodles or want to experience the fastest internet in the world, South Korea is heaven for tech fundies and foodies alike. (Photos: iStock) Imran Khan Echoes Pak Army Line Five days after the Pulwama attack, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan spoke for the first time on the terror outrage, echoing the Pakistan Army's line and threatening to "retaliate" in the event of an Indian attack. Storm blankets Albuquerque with snow An overnight storm has prompted more than 200 closures and delays across New Mexico. Forecasters say as much as 6 inches of snow is expected in some areas of Albuquerque. Trump moving closer to creating a Space Force President Donald Trump is moving closer toward his goal of creating a Space Force, just not as the separate military department he envisioned. Prince Harry meets children on visit to south London community centre Prince Harry puts in an appearance at a south London community centre as children enjoy a Fit and Fed half-term activity programme, with newly independent MP Chuka Umunna also in attendance. Quick Guide to Peru From art collections of a pre-Colombian era and adventures in the bustling capital Lima to rainbow mountains and massive lakes, Peru is a travel bucket-list goal for those seeking to explore South America. (Photos: iStock) Quick Guide to Nigeria The country, rich in natural landscapes, wildlife and culture is a must see for South African travellers. Is Nigeria on your travel bucket list? Well here's all you need to know to plan your visit! (Photos: iStock) Quick Guide to Mozambique Mozambique, much more than golden and white sandy beaches, prawns and peri-peri chicken, this unique African destination offers travellers a wealth of memorable experiences. (Photos: iStock) Quick Guide to Mauritius Approximately 3 075 km from SA, the island paradise of Mauritius covers a relatively small area of 2 040 km2 and is one of the hottest destinations for SA travellers. Here's why (Photos: iStock) The force awakens in France as lightsaber duelling becomes official sport The iconic weapon from a galaxy far, far away now has the same status as the foil, épée and sabre. Quick Guide to Lesotho No matter what the weather may be, the Kingdom of Lesotho offers holidaymakers remote countryside, varied natural landscapes and unique cultural heritage to explore. (Photos: iStock) Quick Guide to Kenya Maybe you'll find yourself uncovering the culture dense streets of the region or exploring the plethora of wildlife in its bushes - either way, Kenya is definitely worth a visit. (Photos: iStock) Quick Guide to Ethiopia With 90-days visa-free available to South Africans, why not plan your next Afri-Travel escape in Ethiopia. Here are the top attractions to plan around. (Photos: iStock) Quick Guide to Cambodia Cambodia, a kingdom built on dream and wonder, sits comfortably alongside its equally popular brethren countries - Thailand and Vietnam in south-east Asia. (Photos: iStock) Quick Guide to Benin Benin is a West African country that is deep-rooted in intriguing culture and breathtaking, natural beauty. There is a wide variety of activities and attractions to keep everyone entertained. (Photos: iStock) Quick Guide: Argentina With Visa-free travel available to South Africans, why not plan your next South American escape to Argentina. Here are some of the highlights you can expect to experience on your trip. (Photos: iStock) South Swindon MP: Honda factory closure will be devastating South Swindon MP says the closure of the Honda factory would be devastating. U.S.-backed Syria force seeks help with Islamic State prisoner 'time bomb' Hundreds of foreign jihadist fighters held in Syria represent a "time bomb" and could escape and threaten the West unless countries do more to take them back, the Kurdish-led, U.S.-backed authorities holding them have warned. Love Island's Adam Collard reveals past appearance battles 'Love Island' hunk Adam Collard has revealed he had issues with his weight and diet when he was a teenager, and it took hard work to ditch his former physique. Lightsaber dueling awakens the Force in France In France, it is easier than ever now to act out “Star Wars” fantasies. The fencing federation has officially recognized lightsaber dueling as a competitive sport. ANALYSIS: In a way this is the end of Bosasa, says Adriaan Basson News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and Opinions Editor Alet Janse van Rensburg unpack the latest developments in the Bosasa scandal, after the company announced it was under voluntary liquidation. Watch. For Martyrs families Salman Khan contributes to BharatKeVeer fund Bollywood actor Salman Khan also came forward and contributed to the families of the 49 CRPF martyrs who were killed on February 14 when a JaisheMohammed JeM terrorist rammed an explosiveladen vehicle into a Central Reserve Police Force CRPF convo... 'Air Cocaine' smuggling trial starts in France Two former French air force pilots go on trial in France, six years after they fled the Dominican Republic following a spectacular drugs bust on a private jet in the Caribbean nation. In what has become known as the "Air Cocaine" case, Pascal Faur... WATCH: Striking Bosasa workers didn't know about liquidation Workers employed by facilities management company Bosasa, now known as African Global Operations, staged a demonstration outside its Mogale City head office on Monday - minutes after the company announced its voluntary liquidation. Come Dine with Me SA is back! The SAFTA award winning series returns for a fifth season from Monday 11 March on BBC Brit (DStv 120). Kosovo's new army parades, Serbs disapprove Members of the Kosovo Security Force marched as an army for the first time in the country's 11th independence day parade on Sunday (February 17).  In December last year, Kosovo's parliament voted to create a 5,000-strong standing army, a week after S Acting Pentagon chief not decided yet on funding border wall Acting U.S. Defense Secretary Patrick Shanahan said on Saturday he had not yet determined whether a border wall with Mexico was a military necessity or how much Pentagon money would be used. Zachary Goelman reports US military planes head for Venezuela with aid The U.S. Air Force has begun flying tons of aid to a Colombian town on the Venezuelan border as part of an effort meant to undermine socialist President Nicolas Maduro. More U.S. aid for Venezuela arrives in Colombia A U.S. military transport plane carrying humanitarian aid meant for Venezuelans landed in the Colombian border city of Cucuta on Saturday, where food and medicine are being stored amid uncertainty over how and where aid will be distributed. Top Colombian ballet dancer takes migration crisis to stage The "black prince" of the Royal Ballet, Colombia's Fernando Montaño, went from hardship to stardom, migrating from Colombia to Cuba and then to Europe. In his latest role in the opera Viaje Barroco, the dancer is interpreting an African migrant's ... Last stand in Syria for fighters of so-called Islamic State The US-backed rebel force in eastern Syria which is leading the assault on so-called Islamic State says its last piece of territory will fall "in a very short time". RAF challenges stereotypes of women with new advertisement on Channel 4 A Royal Air Force advert that challenges sexist stereotypes of women in advertising will make its debut after winning GBP1 million of free airtime on Channel 4.

The provocative campaign is the recipient of the broadcaster's Diversity In Advertisi... Logistical problems force Nigeria election delay Nigeria's electoral watchdog on Saturday postponed presidential and parliamentary elections for one week, just hours before polls were due to open. Logistical problems force Nigeria election delay Nigeria's electoral watchdog on Saturday postponed presidential and parliamentary elections for one week, just hours before polls were due to open. NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh votes in advance in Burnaby South byelection NDP Leader Jagmeet Singh and his wife, Gurkiran Kaur Sidhu, vote in advance in a federal byelection in Burnaby South. Australian leaders warned: act now to save koalas The President of WWF International has warned Australian leaders that the nation's iconic marsupial, the koala, is at risk of extinction due to high rates of deforestation. London Fashion Week faces Brexit reality London Fashion Week is kicking off but any of its collections won't hit store shelves until after Britain leaves the European Union. Retailers and designers are fear the divorce will effect their business, and access to talent. India Mourns its martyrs Families mourned the death of Central Reserve Police Force jawans martyred in Pulwama terror attack. They struggled to comprehend the loss of their family members. There were scenes of grief and despair as families awaited the mortal remains. 23 feared dead in flood at disused Zimbabwe gold mine At least 23 illegal gold miners are feared dead in Zimbabwe after two disused shafts flooded in a mining town 145 kilometres (90 miles) south-west of the capital Harare.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.