Jenna Etheridge (iStock) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The economy is sluggish and we can't see how few rands we have left because the lights keep switching off. But South Africa kept Valentine's Day lit on Twitter with its usual charm and wit. When it came to gifts we hoped to receive, it was clear the bar was set very low: All I want for #Valentines is less #LoadShedding. Candlelit and 'Dining in the Dark" dinners just got a whole new meaning ?? — Nicola Bayly (@nicola_bayly) February 14, 2019   We could celebrate that we woke up with a full battery and cellphone reception: #Valentines day today and people waking up to cute texts, hearts and flowers.Me: waking up to my phone ?? charged and no #loadshedding. ????#HappyValentinesDay #love one another Eskom, and not your empty wallet, was to blame for why your "Bae's" special meal was wrapped in plastic: On a Valentine’s Day I’m just here deciding if I should get Nandos or McDonald’s. ???? — MaBhekzon (@MaBhekzon) February 14, 2019   Romantic poetry provided a temporary painkiller for the upcoming elections: Julius is redMmusi is blueThe ANC sucksBut the opposition does too :’(#ValentinesPoetry And even if we weren't feeling the love, we embraced the notion of 'n boer maak altyd 'n plan' [we always make a plan]: Those who didn’t receive flowers have found creative ways not be left out this Valentines Day ??????. pic.twitter.com/dqcnv4cGbe Predictably, politicians didn't give up an opportunity to spread the love too:     #Ramaphosa: Allow me to begin by wishing my wife, who is in the gallery, and all the women members of our Parliament here present here a happy Valentine’s Day. #RamaphosaResponds #SONADebate Happy Valentines to all South Africans. These two amazing women, contribute to our cause in incredible ways. True champions.Wish them an amazing Valentine’s Day. pic.twitter.com/pItYKUAtxZ ”The true revolutionary is guided by a great feeling of love. It is impossible to think of a genuine revolutionary lacking this quality.” To all those who celebrate Valentine 's Day, receive Love today and forever. #Valentines2019 #EFFIsLove #EFFRedFriday #Red #Love pic.twitter.com/55JHU5U83l This day brings bitter sweet memories for some of us but it also serves as a reminder that love always prevails. Love is the one thing that keeps us going even when we are faced with hardships. Today I send you all my love and say thank you for showing love. Happy Valentine’s Day   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.