Tshidi Madia The ANC flag is photographed. (Thapelo Maphakela, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The ANC in Ekurhuleni has defeated a motion from opposition parties and some coalition partners for the immediate suspension of the City's chief operations officer. A Special Investigations Unit (SIU) probe found that COO Lesiba Mojapelo had deviated from supply chain policies to award TS Records a R4m tender to market the City's 2010 FIFA World Cup activities. At the time, he was general manager of the City's 2010 legacy projects. The report, which Gauteng Premier David Makhura handed over to Ekurhuleni Mayor Mzwandile Masina in 2018, was discussed at Thursday's marathon council sitting. Masina's spokesperson, Phakamile Mbengashe, said in a statement: "The SIU report on the matter of the 2010 general manager stated that they are in the process of compiling evidence for disciplinary proceedings to be instituted against the chief operating officer. The City has not received this evidence to date." WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. The City claims Mojapelo followed proper council processes in the matter. SIU investigation It also said that as a result of the SIU investigation, several officials had were charged and disciplined. But the AIC, which formed a coalition with the ANC, told News24 on Thursday that it wanted Mojapelo to be relieved of his duties. Other coalition partners, such as the PAC and Independent Ratepayers' Association of South Africa's Izak Berg were not even present for the vote. "We are saying we will do anything to make sure the ANC accounts. They must respect the SIU report and that's it," AIC regional secretary Yongama Mabengu said. Mabengu questioned why DA councillors did not participate in the motion. But not all four AIC members agreed with Mabengu's position - something which he denied. "The mandate was we vote with the EFF," Mabengu insisted. An ANC leader in the region, who sided with the AIC before the council sitting, was also unhappy about the outcome. The leader, who asked to remain anonymous, accused his own party's caucus of misleading the council, claiming it was undermining the SIU's findings. Mbengashe said the council's report would be sent to the Presidency. "Due process of council will be followed, and all other matters will be referred to National Treasury," he said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 48 teams possible by Qatar 2022 - Infantino FIFA President Gianni Infantino said on Wednesday (31st October) they are looking into the possibility of increasing the number of teams at the 2022 World Cup. Will Smith and Diplo working on official FIFA World Cup anthem Will Smith is reportedly heading back into the studio to perform the official World Cup song. He's allegedly teamed up with American artist Nicky Jam and Kosovo singer Era Istref for the soccer anthem, which is thought to have been produced by Diplo. Matias Perrone and Sophie Brown become individual FootGolf World Cup champions Argentina's Matias Perrone was overcome with emotion after winning the 2018 FootGolf World Cup champion on Sunday, as Sophie Brown lifted the women's trophy.  Perrone shot eight birdies in his final round to finish on 16 under, a two-shot lead ove... 'Seedorf left me astonished' - Tite on Cameron boss as a player Headcoach Tite insists that there are places up for grabs in his Brazilian side as they prepare to take on Cameroon on Tuesday (20th November). England fan has no regrets over World Cup winners tattoo Jamie Richardson from Allerton Bywater, who had a tattoo proclaiming England the winners of the 2018 World Cup on the day after England's group game against Panama, says he has no regrets and is proud of what the team has achieved. "You can count on us Mr President" - AFC President Shaikh Salman gets behind Infantino "You can count on us Mr President" - AFC President Shaikh Salman gives his support for FIFA President Gianni Infantino after he hinted that there would be 48 teams at Qatar 2022, which would include more teams from Asia. World Cup 2018: Triumph and tears Paris erupts into celebration as Zagreb weeps, after France beats Croatia in the World Cup final. France fans celebrate World Cup semi final win over Belgium French soccer fans celebrate in Paris as their team beat Belgium 1-0 to earn a place in the World Cup final. A lookback to the 2018 World Cup SNTV lookback to the 2018 World Cup in Russia where 32 teams compeated in the tournament.  It was the first World Cup to use Video Assistant Referees.  It was an entertaining tournament and France lifted the trophy beating Croatia 4-2 in the final. Phil Neville explains special meaning of England's group at the women's world cup Reaction from Paris on Saturday (8th December), following the draw for the 2019 FIFA Women's World Cup. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: World Cup draw in full: Group A: France, South Korea, Norway and Nigeria Group B: Germany, China, Spain and South Afric... Loew was "very depressed after the World Cup" Neuer ahead of Germany vs France Germany spoke on Tuesday (4th September) ahead of facing World Champions France in the Nations League. Southgate backs Modric for best player in the world award International football head coaches, including, England's Gareth Southgate reflected on Player of the Year Luka Modric and their respective 2018 World Cup campaigns at the FIFA Conference held in London on Sunday (23rd September). FIFA hope 2022 World Cup will have 48 teams FIFA president Gianni Infantino said on Thursday that he remains hopeful that the 2022 World Cup finals in Qatar can be expanded to 48 teams from its currently agreed 32.    Speaking at the UEFA Congress in Rome, Infantino called for the feasiblit... Jose Pekerman steps down from Colombia as longest-serving coach Colombia coach Jose Pekerman's six-year spell came to an end on Tuesday(4th September) after he decided not to renew his contract. Wenger says Qatar under huge pressure to deliver at 2022 World Cup Arsene Wenger discussed Qatar 2022, exactly four years away from the start of the World Cup "I love Eden Hazard" Robert Pires on Ballon d'Or "I love Eden Hazard" - Sebastien Pires' choice for the 2018 Ballon d'Or winner. David Beckham: There are no easy games in the World Cup David Beckham has spoken about England's 2018 World Cup draw and says there are no easy games when you get to the finals.

Beckham was speaking at a fundraising gala evening for international football charity Grassroot Soccer 'Modric better than Ronaldo and Messi' Croatia coach on world's best player International football head coaches, including Croatia's Zlatko Dalic reflected on Player of the Year Luka Modric at the FIFA Conference held in London on Sunday (23rd September). Russia World Cup: Corbyn calls on Fifa for tournament safety Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn speaks on England's participation in the 2018 World Cup in Russia. Harry Kane re-lives World Cup glory at Sports Personality of the Year awards England captain Harry Kane said he would relive the nail-biting penalty shootout with Colombia during the 2018 World Cup. World Cup top scorers: Kane leads the race for the Golden Boot A look at the top scorers at the 2018 World Cup, with England's Harry Kane leading the way ahead of rivals Cristiano Ronaldo and Romelu Lukaku. World Cup top scorers: Kane extends his lead for the Golden Boot A look at the top scorers at the 2018 World Cup, with England's Harry Kane leading the way ahead of rivals Cristiano Ronaldo and Romelu Lukaku. 'Come to Russia and support your team' - FIFA ambassador tells English FIFA World Cup ambassador and former Miss Russia Victoria Lopyreva called on England fans to come to Russia and support their team on Monday (July 9) despite difficult relations between Britain and Russia. Camel predicts Croatia win over England in World Cup semi-final A camel from Tajikistan's capital Dushanbe zoo predicts Croatia will beat England in their FIFA World Cup semi-final on Wednesday. WATCH: ANC paints Joburg yellow demanding service delivery Hundreds of ANC members from greater Joburg – in collaboration with alliance partners Sanco, SACP and Cosatu – are marching to the offices of Mayor Herman Mashaba, Premier David Makhura and Eskom to hand over memorandums demanding service delivery WATCH: Armed local farmer walks into demonstration in Greyton Western Cape police are probing an incident involving a man who was caught on camera on Monday, wielding a firearm during a demonstration in Greyton. WATCH: ANC mourns the passing of Mendi Msimang - 'A giant tree has fallen' ANC pays tribute to struggle stalwart and its former treasurer-general Mendi Msimang following his passing at the age of 78. WATCH: ANCGP hands over memorandum, demands scrapping of etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. WATCH: 'We are not fighting the ANC' - Mahumapelo ahead of court appearance Former ANC North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo addresses supporters before fighting the NEC decision to disband his PEC at the South Gauteng High Court. WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma. ANC launches election manifesto South Africa's ruling ANC party launches its election campaign on Saturday ahead of polls in May that it is tipped to win despite recently falling support, internal divisions and a sluggish economy. On Friday, party members including President Cyr... WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. WATCH: Damage to 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard a criminal act – DA The DA has called the damage inflicted on its newly unveiled 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, a 'criminal act'. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. Mabuza back from sick leave, campaigns in Mpumalanga Deputy President David Mabuza has emerged in Piet Retief, Mpumalanga, after he went Russia for a routine medical trip after taking sick leave last month. WATCH: Khabisi Mosunkutu remembered at emotional memorial service The memorial service of ANC stalwart Khabisi Mosunkutu was held on Friday at Pimville,Soweto. The 69-year-old former MEC passed away on Monday after battling with his health for some time. 2017: WATCH: A News24 Festive Season special - politicians 'sing' Last Christmas Watch as South African politicians attempt to 'sing' pop duo Wham!'s 1984 hit single, Last Christmas. S Africa 'captured by corrupt elements' South Africa's President Zuma feels "anxious" about his future, says ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. 'Liverpool to win EPL this year, Chelsea next' Fernando Torres Former World Cup winner Fernando Torres hopes to stay in Japan for the near future Fan gets tattoo declaring England as World Cup winners A confident England soccer fan has had a tattoo declaring the country as the 2018 World Cup winners etched onto his stomach - three weeks before the tournament's July 15 final. Siberian bear picks Croatia to win World Cup final Buyan, a male Siberian brown bear, bet on Croatia to win over France in the FIFA World Cup final match which will be held in Moscow's Luzhniki stadium on Sunday. Meerkats predict England semi-final win Mob of mystic meerkats predicts England semi-final win and a first World Cup final spot since 1966 Meet the England fans cycling to the Russia World Cup Jamie Marriott and Mitchell Jones aim to saddle up on May 25 and pedal from Emsworth, Hampshire, through France, Germany, Poland and Ukraine to reach Volgograd in time to see the Three Lions play their tournament opener against Tunisia on June 18. Chinese trophy factory churns out World Cup merch Taiwanese-owned Wagon Group is in the process of manufacturing tens of thousands of replica World Cup trophies and official souvenirs in the run up to the Russia 2018 World Cup. FIFA World Cup Trophy unveiled at Moscow's central square The FIFA World Cup trophy was unveiled on Moscow's Red Square on Sunday. Thousands of fans were able to see the famous trophy, which will be awarded to the winner of the 2018 World Cup in Moscow on July 15. Welbeck - Arab world will produce another Salah Danny Welbeck spoke to SNTV at the Arsenal Soccer School Dubai in the UAE on Wednesday, discussing his current injury, Aaron Ramsey's upcoming move to Italy and England's run to the semi-finals of last year's FIFA World Cup finals.  Welbeck is cur... WATCH: Police clash with marchers at ANC demonstration A scuffle ensued between a group wearing Sanco t-shirts and police after fireworks was allegedly fired during an ANC march on Friday to Premier David Makhura's office demanding service delivery. Outa, ANCGP and civil society groups march to union buildings against etolls The ANC in Gauteng marched to the Union Buildings on Friday to tell the ANC elected government that e-tolls need to be scrapped. Thousands marched through the streets of Tshwane on Friday morning.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.