Ntwaagae Seleka DUT students are threatening to shut down the institution if management does not resolve the ongoing staff strike over salaries soon. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Durban University of Technology (DUT) student Mlungisi Madonsela, who was shot and killed on campus last week, is to be remembered at a memorial service on Tuesday. Madonsela was shot and killed after security personnel and students clashed at the university last Tuesday - which led to the temporary shutdown of the institution. On Friday, DUT management team and its student leadership resolved to reopen the administrative functions of the institution's campuses on Monday. Management and the SRC later agreed to the partial reopening of the university on Monday. News24 previously reported that Madonsela was shot during an altercation with security guards at one of DUT's campuses and that he later died in hospital. Provincial police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele told News24 that a group of about 30 students had stoned the administration building last Tuesday, injuring an administration staffer and a security guard. READ: DUT shooting: Security guards suspended after student dies In a statement by DUT management last week, the university said two security guards had been suspended by the security company contracted by the university, pending the outcome of the company's investigation. DUT was also conducting its own investigation into the shooting. The institution previously said that they would consider severing ties with the security company if investigations revealed transgressions. The memorial service is expected to be held on Tuesday at 13:00 at a venue which has not yet been announced. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.