Kaveel Singh Agriculture MEC Themba Mthembu is concerned about levels of corruption within the agriculture department.  (Clive Ndou) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Agriculture and Rural Development has suffered in recent years because of widespread corruption, MEC Themba Mthembu has said. "There appears to be an alliance of tenderpreneurs, corrupt officials, some trade union leaders and some powerful people who are bent on helping themselves in the department," Mthembu said on Friday. He made the statement after meeting with commodity associations to share the department's turnaround strategy for the next five years. Speaking very frankly, Mthembu conceded that there were "elements" in the department that were "captured". He said the department had been turned into "some kind of a paradise for tenderpreneurs". Read: There are corrupt officials in the agriculture department – Bheki Cele "The department has experienced some challenges which we are in the process of addressing." Since 2009, the department has seen four MECs come and go and has had at least 10 heads of department. "This high turnover of political principals and department heads has resulted in constant changes in policies and strategic programmes, with minimal implementation," Mthembu said. He said that the department had now taken stricter measures against corruption. "We have since decided to have an internal anti-corruption committee which will sit on a regular basis and will also include organised labour." Mthembu said that strong partnerships would lay a foundation for a clear strategy for inclusive development. "Working together, we will create a platform to provide expertise to support smallholder and commercial black producers to achieve their potential." Whistleblowers should still come forward says Hawks after Bosasa arrests ormer Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi, former correctional services CFO Patrick Gillingham, and Bosasa official Andries van Tonder, on Wednesday briefly appeared in the dock at the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court. WATCH: Agrizzi, van Tonder and Gillingham appear in dock The Hawks on Wednesday arrested six suspects on allegations of corruption, money laundering and fraud relating to Bosasa. A warrant of arrest has been issued for a seventh suspect. 'Our rail system has gone to the dogs' - DA protests at Prasa offices The Democratic Alliance held a picket outside the offices of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA) in Hatfield, Pretoria on Wednesday. WATCH: 'Give me a tender' - sings satirical 'Elvis' on Bosasa scandal The much-talked about Bosasa scandal has gripped South Africa over the past week since former chief-operating officer Angelo Agrizzi blew the whistle on bribery and corruption. WATCH: Ramaphosa calls on private sector to assist with the fight against corruption Corruption has become a big issue that has to be addressed by the whole nation, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Thursday. The circumstances are dire in SA but we can't lose hope - Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) leader prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi says corruption has become endemic in South Africa.  He added that people must do as much as they can to expose the corrupt politicians.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.