Pelane Phakgadi Former North West ANC chairperson Supra Mahumapelo at the Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg. (File, Tshidi Madia, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Supra Mahumapelo's recent court triumph over the ANC could be short-lived as the former premier is yet to take control of the ANC's North West offices. The provincial task team (PTT) disputes claims that Mahumapelo will take back his position at Getrude Mphekwa House following a meeting with national ANC members on Sunday. The PTT says, while the South Gauteng High Court ruled in favour of Mahumapelo's provincial executive committee (PEC), the correct outcome of the meeting is that the old PEC's mandate expires on Wednesday. READ: Supra Mahumapelo back in charge of ANC North West, for now "Some of us as PTT members will even be resigning from that PEC before its mandate expires on Wednesday," said PTT member Mmoloki Cwaile. He said employees at "Mphekwa House remain only those who have been at Mphekwa all along as permanent employees and those contracted by the PTT. It is not true that there has been any effort to take over Mphekwa House," said Cwaile. Cwaile said the national executive committee (NEC) members that joined the radical response team (RTT) meeting on Sunday included Malusi Gigaba, Khensani Khubayi and Obed Bapela, among others. One of the other outcomes of the meeting was that the party would appeal the court's decision to reinstate Mahumapelo's PEC. "There was a proposal that without overshadowing the decisions of the NEC ahead of the elections, both the [task team] and the PEC must engage on how best they can help the ANC," Cwaile added. Cwaile said Mahumapelo's PEC had called a meeting for Monday evening, just 48 hours before its mandate expires. "Supra [Mahumapelo] must not mislead people and call himself a chairperson. But it is clear there is a defiance... and he wants to undermine the prospects of the ANC in the elections". ALSO READ: High Court rules decision to disband ANC's North West PEC was unlawful Cwaile said he would personally apply the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture to "present what I know of state capture in the province". He said that at the meeting with the RTT, the PTT resolved that all parties should continue to engage and that their decisions or proposals should be communicated by Thursday. "That will be on whether or not they (the PEC) are agreeing on propositions made on the probability of recomposing a new provincial task team, whose sole mandate is about elections… The national office should assign deployees to facilitate elective regional and provincial conferences and the rebuilding of the ANC branches". Earlier on Monday, North West ANC spokesperson Gerald Modise told News24 that the PEC was back in place as resolved by the courts, despite the fact the ANC intended to challenge the court ruling.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.