Andile Sithole Denise Moodley urges applicants to collect their ID documents.photo: andile sithole Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories MORE than 400 identity documents that have not been collected are gathering dust at the Greytown Home Affairs Department. The department has urged applicants to come forward and collect their ID documents before the president proclaims the date for the elections. Some of the uncollected IDs date back to 2015. Denise Moodley, office manager at the Greytown Home Affairs, said that many applicants travel long distances to apply for their ID documents however, many do not return to collect them. “People come to our offices to apply for identity documents and go back to the areas out of the province. At the end of the year we experience high volumes of people coming to collect their IDs. We have found that other people who had applied for identity documents have moved from their places to other areas. “We are going to keep these IDs until the day of the elections. Thereafter they will be sent back to Pretoria. The department will not keep these IDs for more than a year,” Moodley said. Spokesperson for the national Home Affairs Department Siya Qoza told the Gazette that Gauteng currently has the highest number of uncollected ID documents. Qoza said: “We have also noted a high number of identity documents not collected in the Eastern Cape. Applicants apply for IDs and never come back to collect. One of the reasons is that applicants change their cellphone numbers after their personal details have been captured to the system and they do not inform our officers about it. “When we send the SMS, [to notify applicants to come and collect IDs] it goes to the old cellphone number that was captured in the system.” Qoza urged ward councillors to encourage residents to visit their local Home Affairs offices to collect their IDs. IDs which are not collected will be sent back to Pretoria.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.