Pelane Phakgadi Nomgcobo Jiba (File, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Deputy National Director of Public Prosecutions (NDPP) Nomvula Mokhatla has revealed that she was kept in the dark on high-profile cases which suspended deputy prosecutions boss Nomgcobo Jiba had been involved in. Testifying at the Mokgoro inquiry in Centurion, Mokhatla said that when Jiba became the acting National Director of Public Prosecutions (NDPP), she changed the strategy and operations of the legal adviser division (LAD), which Mokhatla headed. The inquiry was established to investigate whether two of the country's most senior prosecutors – Jiba and special director of public prosecutions Lawrence Mrwebi – are fit for office. According to Mokhatla, Jiba reduced her division's mandate and told her, in a meeting in her office in 2012, that "certain services would no longer be rendered from within LAD, but would be dealt with by the national prosecuting services with immediate effect". Kept in the dark These included representations and complaints made to the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). "Generally in all high-profile cases where the acting NDPP's (Jiba at the time) attention is required, she had a greater level of involvement than in other cases and it was generally managed from her office," Mokhatla submitted. Mokhatla said that although she was not consulted at times, she expected Jiba to keep her abreast of cases which involved her unit, the LAD. Mokhatla said that ideally, when all litigious cases come to the NPA, they should immediately be brought to the attention of the head of the LAD, so that they can allocate someone to oversee them. "Jiba would sometimes engage the assistance of persons employed in LAD without any consultations with me." Mokhatla on Thursday afternoon is expected to further detail how she was kept in the dark with other high-profile cases.  WATCH: Buses burned, windows shattered in CPUT violence Vandals destroyed two buses and damaged buildings at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology's Bellville campus in the early hours of Wednesday morning. WATCH: Bakkie goes swimming while trying to pull boat out of the water in Cape Town A man who was pulling a boat out of the water at the Oceana Power Boat Club in Granger Bay, Cape Town, got more than he bargained for at the weekend when his vehicle also had to be towed out of the water. NATIONWIDE STRIKE: Cosatu protests Eskom restructuring and job loses Cosatu members took to the streets on Wednesday after the trade union federation announced a nationwide strike. WATCH: ANC hails 'selfless leader' Mama Kotane as she celebrates 107 years ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule on Tuesday hailed stalwart Mama Rebecca Kotane at her 107th birthday celebration in Soweto. WATCH: Brazen robbery in Hillbrow leaves two security officers dead Two security officers were shot and killed during a robbery in Hillbrow on Monday night. WATCH: Durban baby rescued from storm drain a 'miracle' - doctor The newborn baby that was rescued from a stormwater pipe in Durban on Monday morning is in good health, her attending physician has said. WATCH: Bill Gates voices optimism about Africa in AU speech President Cyril Ramaphosa was in Ethiopia for the 32nd ordinary session of African Union heads of state on Saturday.
He met with Microsoft chairman Bill Gates at a gala dinner hosted by Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed. WATCH: Rescuers save newborn baby girl in three-hour operation A newborn baby girl has been saved after emergency services conducted a three hour mammoth rescue from a storm drain pipe in Durban. LISTEN: Eskom CFO Calib Cassim on the utility's woes Eskom CFO Calib Cassim weighs in on the power utility's unbundling and plans to manage its crippling financial crisis   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.