Jenna Etheridge Former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor has found support as she prepares to return to the Zondo commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture on Monday. According to a statement by the commission, Mentor will return to the witness stand to complete her evidence and be cross-examined by those who were granted leave to do so. Duduzane Zuma, son of former president Jacob Zuma, as well as businessman Fana Hlongwane will cross-examine Mentor.   She appeared to be tired from all the preparation, posting a photo of herself on Facebook on Sunday with the caption: "Taking a little break from scouring through documents". One wrote: "Vytjie remember millions of people who love you for your bravery. Stand firm girl and know South Africans have your back. Brave girl." Another commented: "We all behind you, relax and state the truth, nothing but the truth shall give you power [sic]." Offered ministerial position In August, Mentor testified for almost three days before the commission. She claimed in her testimony that she was offered the ministerial position of public enterprises by the Guptas at their Saxonwold compound. Mentor told the commission that Ajay Gupta had offered her the post if she, in turn, would drop the SAA Johannesburg to Mumbai route, so a Gupta-linked company, Jet Airways, could benefit. She also claimed that she was introduced to one of the Gupta brothers by Duduzane Zuma and that he was in the Gupta compound when she had the meeting with Ajay. Previously, Mentor made a U-turn at the commission after she admitted that she may have incorrectly identified a man she was introduced to by Duduzane Zuma as Fana Hlongwane. READ: #StateCaptureInquiry: Vytjie Mentor does an about turn on Fana Hlongwane News24 reported that in a letter to the commission, Mentor admitted that she made an error in identifying Hlongwane.  WATCH: 'Ja boetie...and R900k next week' – Zondo inquiry hears from Bosasa bag man Yet more explosive testimony before the Zondo Commission of inquiry into state capture on Tuesday has revealed the identity of a man who delivered cash to Bosasa, which was in turn used to pay bribes to government officials and ministers. 'I will kill you' - Bosasa operative to journalist News24 editor-in-chief Adriaan Basson told the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture that a public relations executive paid by Bosasa said she would "kill" him if he told anyone about a threatening phone call she had made to him. LISTEN: 'That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. WATCH: Bosasa and #StateCapture | Here's what you need to know... Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH LIVE: Julius Malema addresses the crowd outside #StateCaptureInquiry EFF leader Julius Malema addressed the crowd outside the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture where Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan was testifying. WATCH: EFF demonstrates for second day at #StateCaptureInquiry Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday continued with his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, as the EFF demonstrated outside for a second day in a row. WATCH: Barbara Hogan to testify at state capture inquiry (part 1) Former minister of public enterprises Barbara Hogan will on Monday begin her testimony at the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. WATCH: Barbara Hogan testifies at state capture inquiry (Part 3) Former minister of public enterprises Barbara Hogan on Monday gave her testimony at the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. WATCH: Barbara Hogan testifies at state capture inquiry (Part 2) Former minister of public enterprises Barbara Hogan on Monday gave testimony at the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. WATCH: Barbara Hogan testifies at state capture inquiry (Part 4) Former minister of public enterprises Barbara Hogan on Monday gave testimony at the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. WATCH: Barbara Hogan testifies at state capture inquiry (Part 5) Former minister of public enterprises Barbara Hogan on Monday gave testimony at the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. Gupta brother threatened to kill Mcebisi Jonas if he spoke about secret meeting #StateCaptureInquiry: Former deputy Minister of Finance Mcebisi Jonas told the state capture commission of inquiry that one of the Gupta brothers threatened to kill him if he revealed details of the meeting where he was offered a bribe.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.