Jenni Evans WATCH- Three firefighters confirmed dead following Johannesburg building fire.mp4 WATCH- Three firefighters confirmed dead following Johannesburg building fire Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane has been asked to investigate the Bank of Lisbon Building blaze in Johannesburg last year in which three firefighters died and two were seriously injured, Public Protector spokesperson Oupa Segalwe said. "The Public Protector has been asked to investigate allegations that the Gauteng Department of Health failed to take action regarding reported unsafe working conditions in the Bank of Lisbon Building long before it was gutted by fire last September," he told News24 on Thursday afternoon. The investigation was triggered by an employee [who wishes to remain anonymous] in one of the departments which was housed in the Johannesburg building. READ: Fatal Joburg fire: Building was only 21% compliant, says MEC Mamabolo Segalwe said the complaint was based on alleged unheeded warnings about the building's safety before the fire. It was submitted anonymously for fear of a backlash. "She (the Public Protector) has been asked to investigate allegations that employees who complained about the matter were being victimised [and] that the department is incurring irregular expenditure because 700 employees have been getting paid in full for sitting at home since the disaster, while the department delays [providing] proper working space," he said. The assessment on this anonymous complaint has since been completed and the case file is en route to the Public Protector's Johannesburg office for investigation, Segalwe said. ALSO READ: These are the 3 firefighters who died in Joburg blaze The non-compliant building was thrust into the spotlight after firefighters Simphiwe Moropane, Mduduzi Ndlovu and Khathutshelo Muedi died while trying to put the fire out after it started on the 23rd floor of the building. Firefighter Simphiwe Moropane (28)Firefighter Mduduzi Ndlovu (40)Firefighter Kathutshelo Muedi (37)#RIP #JoburgFire@HermanMashaba@CityofJoburgZA pic.twitter.com/quIVkiWnrY Livhuwani Maumela and Isaac Moleko Bereng were injured and 13 employees were treated for smoke inhalation. The fire started on September 5 in the building in which the departments of health, human settlements, and cooperative government and traditional affairs were housed. Gauteng MEC for infrastructure development Jacob Mamabolo stated after the fire that the building was only 21% compliant with safety and health regulations. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Grave dilemma: S.African cities short of cemetery space In Johannesburg, land is a hot topic, even for the dead. Population growth, migration to urban areas and an influx of foreigners has put huge pressure on land in urban areas. Adding to the problem is a cultural resistance to the practice of cremat... WATCH: Shady character steals designer sunglasses A thief with sticky fingers was able to steal two pairs of designer sunglasses from an optical store in Johannesburg last Friday. South African archaeologists find "lost city" using laser technology Researchers used cutting edge laser technology to recreate an ancient city that existed near Johannesburg from the 15th century until about 200 years ago. WATCH: Pedestrian mowed down by taxi driving in the wrong lane A taxi driving on the wrong side of the road knocked over a pedestrian in morning traffic in Sharonlea, Johannesburg on Monday. Boeing sued for wrongful death in Lion Air crash The family of a passenger killed in the crash of Lion Air Flight 610 is suing Boeing. They say pilots were not provided with adequate instructions on the plane's anti-stall system. WATCH: New footage shows armed men fleeing after Joburg M1 shootout New footage has emerged giving further insight into the shooting on Johannesburg's M1 on Monday. WATCH: Firefighters run Soweto Marathon in 18kg gear to honour fallen colleagues Three Johannesburg firefighters ran the Old Mutual Soweto Marathon on Sunday in bunker gear, to commemorate their fallen colleagues. WATCH: Door of Hope: A new beginning for abandoned babies The Door of Hope organisation has taken care of more than 1500 children since it was established in 1999.

One of the ways they take in children is through the "baby bin" - a hole in the wall were parents can leave their unwanted babies. WATCH: Lehae land invaders vow to stay Residents of Lehae, south of Johannesburg, who invaded vacant RDP houses said they will not be shaken after the police evicted them and took the doors of their now homes. WATCH: House robbers make off with goods, cash worth R200 000 A family locked themselves in a room while a gang of house robbers in Johannesburg helped themselves to goods valued at R200 000 in a matter of minutes. WATCH: Mzwandile Masina inspects Benoni dam wall after collapse Ekurhuleni Mayor Mzwandile Masina conducted a site inspection at Middle Lake in Benoni, Gauteng, on Thursday following a partial dam wall collapse. WATCH. Khumbula - Dandyness with a political message In South Africa a collective of fashion-forward dandies are challenging stereotypes about life in the country's townships. The group, called Khumbala, hails from Alexandra in Johannesburg. WATCH: Truck set alight during protest in Isando A truck was set alight allegedly by protesting workers in the plastics sector in Isando, east of Johannesburg on Thursday. WATCH: 'Unruly' passenger forcibly removed from Kulula flight A passenger was forcibly removed from a Kulula flight bound for Johannesburg from Durban on Sunday night. Nana on Tanushrees Allegations: Jo Jhooth hai Wo Jhooth Hai Actor Nana Patekar on Saturday pushed aside the mics at the airport in Jodhpur as media persons urged him to answer questions about Tanushree Dutta's allegation that he sexually harassed her on the set of a film a decade ago. Later, he said that l... Harvey Weinstein sued by assistant Harvey Weinstein's former assistant is seeking legal action against the producer, claiming she was forced to clean up after his "sexual encounters". "Ronaldo has 20 days to answer sex assault complaint" Mayorga's lawer The legal team representing Kathryn Mayorga appeared at a press conference in Las Vegas, Nevada on Wednesday (3rd October) and outlined their case against Juventus superstar Cristiano Ronaldo - Mayorga alleges that the Portuguese international com... WATCH: Rubber bullets and teargas answer Westbury residents' pleas in fight against drugs, gun viole While drug dealing and the accompanying gun violence have been on the increase in Westbury, residents say their calls for a safer, drug-free community seem to go unheard as police allegedly fail to respond to complaints. Michael B Jordan walks the red carpet at Creed 2 screening in South Africa Sandton City, Johannesburg was filled with fans on Saturday night as Creed 2 star Michael B Jordan hit the red carpet to promote the upcoming movie. Without any legal complaint, allegation is unauthentic : Kailash Kher Singer- composer Kailash Kher, whose name cropped up in the ongoing MeToo movement says that unless any legal complaint is lodged, the allegation against him is not authentic. VIDEO | Festive blitz: 11 Joburg nightclubs raided during late night police operation Eleven places of entertainment were raided in the Johannesburg inner city on Tuesday night as part of the Buya Mthetho campaign. 3 Days to Go: Johannesburg Premiere The 3 Days to Go Johannesburg premiere took place at Ster-Kinekor, Sandton City and audiences couldn't get enough of the stars on the red carpet. 50 Cent seeking legal advice after learning New York Cop told detectives to shoot him on sight 50 Cent is reportedly considering legal action after learning he was allegedly targeted by a New York Police Department boss. New arrests in connection to Charlottesville Authorities have announced federal charges and the arrests of multiple individuals in connection with deadly clashes at a white nationalist rally in Virginia last year. WATCH: Freedom Park residents demonstrate outside Luthuli House Luthuli House in the Johannesburg CBD should brace itself for a "sleepover" if the Gauteng government doesn't address issues raised by landless residents of Freedom Park in the south of the city. WATCH: Chinese national shot and wounded, cash stolen in Johannesburg A Chinese national was shot and wounded and cash stolen out of his vehicle when several armed robbers pounced on his car south of Johannesburg yesterday. WATCH: Premier David Makhura receives letter of demand from coloured communities Residents in Gauteng communities affected by gang violence marched in Johannesburg on Friday to hand over a letter of demand to Gauteng Premier David Makhura. Swiss watchdog investigate banks over alleged payments system boycott Switzerland's competition watchdog has raided the offices of financial companies, including Credit Suisse and UBS, to investigate a suspected boycott of mobile payment solutions such as Apple Pay and Samsung Pay. WATCH: New footage has emerged following clash by 2 rival church groups in Joburg New video footage has emerged of the widely reported clash outside the International Pentecost Holiness Church in Zuurbekom, west of Johannesburg last Thursday. WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. WATCH: Weekend hail leaves parts of Pretoria covered in ice Severe weather conditions hit large parts of Gauteng this past weekend after the South African Weather Service (SAWS) issued a notice for severe thunderstorms across the province. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. Soccer star Ronaldo denies rape allegations Global soccer star Cristiano Ronaldo says he firmly denies sexual assault accusations, after a Nevada woman sued him for alleged rape at a Las Vegas hotel in 2009. Alleged Trump star vandal pleads not guilty Austin Clay, the latest man charged with destroying Donald Trump’s star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, pleads not guilty and says he wanted to bring about "positive political change". WATCH: 'Total Shutdown Gauteng' hands over letter of demand at JSE Members of the Total Shutdown Gauteng grouping marched on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) on Tuesday, demanding a full audit of coloured representation in listed businesses and a commitment to rectifying the lack of coloured representivity. WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. WATCH: Queuing won't guarantee university admission The University of Johannesburg is urging prospective students to register online Instead of queuing on campus. WATCH: Joburg security guard wounded in shootout with armed robbery suspects A security guard was shot and wounded as he investigated a suspected business robbery on the corner of Prichard and Mooi Streets in Johannesburg last Saturday afternoon. AirAsia faces corruption, illegal licensing allegations in India Low-cost airline AirAsia has been accused by Indian authorities of corruption and obtaining a license by breaking foreign investment rules. WATCH: Golf ball-sized hail stones turn parts of Gauteng an icy white Severe hailstorms turned parts of Gauteng an icy white on Thursday. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. WATCH: Father of boxing champion killed in heated argument in Gauteng A video which has been circulating on social media shows a 61-year-old man and a security guard in a heated altercation, Local celebs shine on SA Fashion Week red carpet Local celebs came dressed in the finest fashions as they stepped onto the red carpet at the Cruz Vodka SA Fashion Week launch party in Johannesburg. WATCH: JHB high court evacuated after prisoners escape Gauteng police have confirmed that the Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg has been evacuated following the escape of two prisoners on Friday morning. WATCH: No injuries or fatalities in South African factory fire Johannesburg emergency services spent hours trying to contain a fire that broke out in a glue and paper factory in Kya Sands, Johannesburg, on Wednesday morning. Johannesburg's grandest old colonial club seeks new image With its imposing columned facade, hunting trophies and oil portraits, the Rand Club in Johannesburg's city centre is a relic of South Africa's colonial and apartheid past. But Alicia Thompson, a black woman born in Johannesburg, is seeking to rep... 'Our rail system has gone to the dogs' - DA protests at Prasa offices The Democratic Alliance held a picket outside the offices of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA) in Hatfield, Pretoria on Wednesday. From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.