Alex Mitchley WATCH: EFF MP slaps security official at Parliament The Economic Freedom Fighters were caught in yet another scuffle at Parliament on Thursday, when one of their MPs assaulted a security official. EFF leader Julius Malema at media interviews after SONA 2019, despite a "threat" to his life, the party claims. (Photo: Jenni Evans, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Two plain clothes police officers have opened cases of assault against members of the EFF following an altercation after the State of the Nation Address (SONA) in Parliament on Thursday night. Video footage emerged on Friday showing EFF MP Marshall Dlamini slapping a plain clothes police officer. Police spokesperson Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo confirmed to News24 that two charges of assault have been laid by a female sergeant and a male warrant officer respectively. He added that police are currently investigating the matters and will then send the case to the Director of Public Prosecutions for decision on whether or not to prosecute. Ramaphosa: I will sing Masekela's 'Thuma Mina' if EFF win in May South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa jokingly says that if the Economic Freedom Fighters win elections in May, he will sing Hugh Masekela's song 'Thuma Mina' in Parliament. Ramaphosa was delivering his last state-of-the-nation address ahead of... Assassination plot Following the slapping incident, the EFF have claimed that the altercation was in response to a right-wing threat against the life of their leader, Julius Malema. "The EFF has received media enquiries regarding an assassination threat on the life of the CIC [commander-in-chief] Julius Malema, which had been planned to be executed during the 2019 State of the Nation Address yesterday," read a statement by EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi. "The security threat implicates elite members of the police, who are in collaboration with right-wing groups to take the life of the CIC, in an attempt to undermine the advances on the expropriation of land without compensation discourse, that will soon be law." WATCH: EFF MP slaps man after SONA According to Ndlozi, the EFF was told that the Parliamentary Security Service, also known as "white shirts" or "bouncers", have been infiltrated by these groups and targeted the occasion of the SONA to execute the "assassination". "The hope was that the EFF caucus would be kicked out of the house, using the parliamentary security [white shirts]."  Warrant Officer Johan Carstens.  "The anticipated evil acts would then be carried out during this moment of chaos. The EFF can confirm this and any further inquiries regarding this threat must be directed to the SAPS [SA Police Service] and the Minister of Police." READ: EFF claims their MP slapped man due to 'right wing assassination threat' on Malema According to the statement, Malema and the EFF leadership were "unreasonably stopped by the white shirts" in Parliament after the House had been adjourned. They ostensibly thought "this was the moment and reacted with the necessary self-defence". "The event of a white security man in black and white, being pushed and clapped [sic] in the face, followed him violently pulling the CIC Malema, from passing through the corridor doors of the National Assembly." The police ministry confirmed on Saturday that they have received information of the threat from the red berets. News24 previously reported that despite the grave "threat" to his life, Malema nonchalantly faced the media outside the National Assembly for interviews after the SONA. He and his colleagues were all smiles. Parliament condemns EFF MP actions Meanwhile, Parliament has condemned Dlamini's alleged assault in the "strongest terms." Parliament's presiding officers, National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete and National Council of Provinces chairperson Thandi Modise said the initial report alleges that Warrant Officer Johan Carstens, responsible for cordoning off the exit area for the procession, faced sudden confrontation and was attacked by the EFF MP, resulting in facial injuries. "The presiding officers are outraged and disappointed by this shameful conduct by the MP, who, as a public representative, is expected to display exemplary conduct to the rest of society – particularly during an important and decorous occasion such as the SONA," reads the statement. WATCH: 'Pravin lied to our people' – EFF While Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan delivered his much-awaited testimony at the state capture inquiry in Johannesburg on Monday, the EFF made its presence known, protesting outside the venue. Man arrested after being found licking front door for three hours Police in California have arrested a man after he was caught on camera licking a home security system in the middle of the night. Two French police officers sentenced to seven years in prison for rape of Canadian tourist Two French police officers sentenced to seven years in prison for rape of Canadian tourist WATCH: Julius Malema on changing the constitution regarding land expropriation On 13 November in parliament, during the first day of the Joint Constitutional Review Committee deliberating a draft report on the possible review of Section 25 of the Constitution to allow expropriation of land without compensation. Van Dyke given nearly 7 years for McDonald death The white Chicago police officer who gunned down a black teenager in 2014 was sentenced Friday to nearly seven years in prison. The sentencing brought to an end to a historic centred on a shocking dashcam video . Pro and anti-Brexit demonstrators outside Parliament Pro and anti-Brexit demonstrators protest outside Parliament days before a key vote on Theresa May’s deal. Albuquerque police investigate blast near mall Police say one person is dead after an unidentified explosion in an alley behind a strip mall in Albuquerque. They say businesses in the area were evacuated after the explosion Monday afternoon. No other injuries have been reported. World's media gathers outside Parliament for Brexit vote World's media gathers outside parliament for Brexit vote Service was Const. Ian Jordan's calling: Victoria police chief A funeral is being held Thursday for a Victoria police officer who died last week after spending 30 years mostly unresponsive following a crash. Const. Ian Jordan was injured while responding to an emergency call in September 1987.. Chicago cop sentenced to more than six years for Laquan McDonald murder A judge sentences former Chicago police officer Jason Van Dyke to more than six years in prison, after a jury found him guilty of murder last year in the 2014 shooting of black teenager Laquan McDonald. Moxie Marlinspike: Trust No One Signal's Moxie Marlinspike sits down with Devin Coldewey to discuss dealing with law enforcement, making cryptography accessible to ordinary people, and how he thinks about security. Retail tycoon at centre of gagging clause row named by peer in Parliament Topshop owner Sir Philip Green has been named in Parliament as the businessman behind an injunction against the Daily Telegraph. 'Leave' stronghold Redcar reacts to Brexit deal defeat In Redcar, one of the strongest pro-Brexit or 'Leave' municipalities in the UK, people react to the Brexit deal defeat in Parliament. Save the Children place statue outside Parliament Save the Children protest to coincide with the visit of Saudi Crown Prince to the UK. They will place a life-size statue of a child next to Parliament to draw attention to the war in Yemen. Police chief backs initial response to Novichok poisonings in Amesbury The Chief Constable of Wiltshire Police has defended his force's initial response to the latest Novichok poisoning.

During a press conference in Amesbury, Kier Pritchard was asked whether he could rule out further Novichok being found. Calgary police chief apologizes to LGBTQ community Calgary's police chief has apologized to the city's LGBTQ community for past discrimination. Roger Chaffin says the police service hopes to better earn the trust of gender and sexually diverse Calgarians. House fire kills three young siblings in Indiana Three young siblings were killed and their mother was injured trying to save them from a house fire in Tell City, Indiana Laquan McDonald cover up case ends in acquittal A judge has acquitted three Chicago police officers of trying to cover up the 2014 shooting of Laquan McDonald, ruling that the dashcam video of the black teenager's death did not necessarily tell the whole story. Missing Interpol chief under investigation, China says China said on Sunday it was investigating Meng Hongwei for suspected wrongdoing after the head of the global law enforcement organisation Interpol and Chinese vice minister for security was reported missing in France. Students wrongly accused of cheating protest outside Parliam International students wrongly accused of cheating protest by Parliament. College town mourns killing of rookie officer Just weeks on the Davis, California police force, 22-year-old Natalie Corona was shot and killed while investigating a traffic accident. The suspect was later found dead by apparent suicide. Woman says she aided man charged in fiance's death A woman admitted Friday that she helped thwart an investigation into the disappearance of a Colorado woman who authorities believe was killed by her fiance, but her motive and the nature of her relationship with the suspect remains a mystery. Police chief urges ‘hope’ at funeral for Fredericton officers Several thousand mourners packed a Fredericton arena on Saturday for the regimental funeral for Constables Robb Costello and Sara Burns. The city’s police chief urged people to focus on “compassion” in the wake of last week’s deadly shooting. WATCH: 'VBS looters, pay back the money' - DA, EFF in war of words President Cyril Ramaphosa's last oral reply for the year came to an abrupt halt when the DA and EFF exchanged insults in Parliament. Watch. Civilian RCMP board to help modernize police force: Goodale Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale announced Wednesday a new civilian advisory board to help the RCMP modernize. Goodale says the interim board will be in place by April and will help the police force focus on employee well-being. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. Third Milwaukee officer killed since June A 17-year police veteran was shot and killed as he served a warrant on the Milwaukee's south side Wednesday, becoming the city's third officer killed in the line of duty in eight months. Police: 5 dead, gunman arrested in bank shooting Authorities say five people have been killed in a shooting at a Florida bank and the gunman has been arrested. Texas girl with cancer sworn in as police officer A 6-year-old Houston-area girl who's battling cancer has had her dream come true of being sworn in as a Texas police officer. Vaani Kapoor and Neha Dhupia TAKE on Social Media TROLLING Actress Vaani Kapoor, Neha Dhupia recently spoke about trolling on social media at seventh edition of Femina Stylista West 2019. Their comments came days after her "Befikre" co-star Ranveer Singh was trolled after he posted a photoghraph of his al... Reporter - Police Violence in the Slums of Nairobi Nineteen-year-old Brian was shot dead in broad daylight in the Kayole slum in Kenya. The Kenyan police are killing suspected criminals in an underground war against crimes - as many as 3,000 in the last year. Five dead in Florida bank shooting Authorities say five people have been killed in a shooting at a Florida bank. Restless squirrel gives US police officer the runaround A restless squirrel gives a police officer in Illinois a fright when it accidentally made its way into the police department. WATCH: Joburg security guard wounded in shootout with armed robbery suspects A security guard was shot and wounded as he investigated a suspected business robbery on the corner of Prichard and Mooi Streets in Johannesburg last Saturday afternoon. Cardi B arrives at court over assault charges Cardi B arrives at court over assault charges Funeral held for rookie officer killed in shooting A 22-year-old California officer killed weeks into the job was a dedicated daughter and sister who represented the best of the police community, family and fellow officers said Friday at a packed memorial service. WATCH: EFF supporters storm Vodacom stores Self-declared members and supporters of the EFF, many in EFF T-shirts, attacked at least two Vodacom stores over the weekend. WATCH: 'Our land and jobs now!' - EFF launches election manifesto Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema on Saturday launched the party's election manifesto at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve. 'Let all land belong to the state' The radical EFF opposition party has called for expropriation of land without compensation to redress the imbalance in land distribution in South Africa. S.Africa's EFF party supporters arrive ahead of Manifesto launch Supporters of South Africa's far-left Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) arrive at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve, Pretoria, ahead of the party's manifesto launch. WATCH: EFF demonstrates for second day at #StateCaptureInquiry Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday continued with his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, as the EFF demonstrated outside for a second day in a row. Alleged attack against "Empire" star Jussie Smollett is being investigated as a possible hate crime An alleged attack against "Empire" star Jussie Smollett is being investigated as a possible hate crime. The 36-year-old actor, who is black and gay and plays the gay character Jamal Lyon on the hit show "Empire" reportedly took himself to the hosp... WATCH LIVE: Julius Malema addresses the crowd outside #StateCaptureInquiry EFF leader Julius Malema addressed the crowd outside the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture where Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan was testifying. WATCH: EFF in heated brawl at East London Hungry Lion franchise Police have opened a case of assault following a scuffle between members of the Economic Freedom Fighters and staff at a Hungry Lion outlet in East London.

The incident took place on Friday. Strasbourg attack: France's threat level raised French police are hunting down a gunman gunman who killed three and injured 11 in Strasbourg on Tuesday evening. WATCH: Gigaba apologises for pinky finger gesture Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba has apologised unreservedly for making a gesture with his pinky finger at an EFF MP during Parliament's volatile sitting on Tuesday. Ramaphosa: I will sing Masekela's 'Thuma Mina' if EFF win in May South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa jokingly says that if the Economic Freedom Fighters win elections in May, he will sing Hugh Masekela's song 'Thuma Mina' in Parliament. Ramaphosa was delivering his last state-of-the-nation address ahead of...   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.