Jan Gerber and Paul Herman WATCH: EFF MP slaps security official at Parliament The Economic Freedom Fighters were caught in yet another scuffle at Parliament on Thursday, when one of their MPs assaulted a security official. Video footage emerged on Friday morning and it shows an EFF MP slapping a man after Thursday evening's State of the Nation Address. It is believed that the man on the receiving end of the slap is a police officer from the Presidential Protection Service. The video apparently shows EFF MP Marshall Dlamini and other EFF MPs, including party leader Julius Malema, expressing unhappiness about not being allowed into the lobby in front of the National Assembly as fast as they wished. OVERVIEW: General praise on Ramaphosa's SONA 2019 speech WATCH: 'Our land and jobs now!' - EFF launches election manifesto Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema on Saturday launched the party's election manifesto at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve. Malema can be seen wagging his finger in the man's direction before Dlamini slaps him. A woman then pushes Dlamini away, before another man gets in between Malema and the person who was slapped. ACDP MP Steve Swart was a witness to the incident, and can be seen in the video toward the back of the crowd. Swart told News24 they had been waiting for the presidential party, who were taking pictures in the lobby, to leave. There were four policemen in uniform and another policeman in plain clothes who asked him and others to wait. "We were waiting there and then the EFF came through and said: 'Excuse me, we have work to do,' and pushed through the police. And that's when the altercation took place." Swart told News24 that he couldn't see which MP was involved, but definitely heard "a klap [smack]" from his vantage point. "The policeman actually staggered right back, it was a hard hit because the blood started to flow. I don't know if anyone else [was hit] but it was shocking actually." EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi could not be reached for comment on Friday morning. News24 is also waiting for a response from Parliament. The story will be updated once further information is known. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Van Dyke given nearly 7 years for McDonald death The white Chicago police officer who gunned down a black teenager in 2014 was sentenced Friday to nearly seven years in prison. The sentencing brought to an end to a historic centred on a shocking dashcam video . WATCH: EFF supporters storm Vodacom stores Self-declared members and supporters of the EFF, many in EFF T-shirts, attacked at least two Vodacom stores over the weekend. Funeral held for rookie officer killed in shooting A 22-year-old California officer killed weeks into the job was a dedicated daughter and sister who represented the best of the police community, family and fellow officers said Friday at a packed memorial service. Police office rescues bear from dumpster A bear cub has been reunited with its mother thanks to a police officer in Northern California who colleagues are calling a "bear whisperer." Civilian RCMP board to help modernize police force: Goodale Public Safety Minister Ralph Goodale announced Wednesday a new civilian advisory board to help the RCMP modernize. Goodale says the interim board will be in place by April and will help the police force focus on employee well-being. WATCH LIVE: Julius Malema addresses the crowd outside #StateCaptureInquiry EFF leader Julius Malema addressed the crowd outside the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture where Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan was testifying. ‘Gilets jaunes' hold 12th weekend of protests, denounce police violence "Gilet jaune” (yellow vest) protesters took to the streets on Saturday for another weekend of anti-government action, as they paid homage to those injured by police in previous demonstrations. Third Milwaukee officer killed since June A 17-year police veteran was shot and killed as he served a warrant on the Milwaukee's south side Wednesday, becoming the city's third officer killed in the line of duty in eight months. 'Let all land belong to the state' The radical EFF opposition party has called for expropriation of land without compensation to redress the imbalance in land distribution in South Africa. Former US police chief - London violence 'just an uptick' London's high rate of violence is "just an uptick", according to one former top  police chief who tackled violence in a major US city. S.Africa's EFF party supporters arrive ahead of Manifesto launch Supporters of South Africa's far-left Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) arrive at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve, Pretoria, ahead of the party's manifesto launch. WATCH: IPID probe case of police brutality after woman's arrest The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) is investigating a case of police brutality after a Pretoria West woman was pulled by her hair and violently shoved into a police van. Hundreds march in funeral procession for Fredericton officers Hundreds of police officers marched through the streets of Fredericton on Saturday in a procession for two officers gunned down last week. Constables Sara Burns and Robb Costello are being honoured with a regimental funeral. WATCH: EFF demonstrates for second day at #StateCaptureInquiry Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday continued with his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, as the EFF demonstrated outside for a second day in a row. RUNderful! Italian police officer runs 39 km in extreme Russian cold Italian extreme runner and policeman Paolo Venturini ran just shy of a marathon in the extremely cold temperatures of -52 degrees Celsius (-61,6 Fahrenheit) in Russia’s Oymyakonsky District, Sakha Republic. Chicago police rescue man from Lake Michigan Chicago police officers saved a man from a frigid Lake Michigan on Sunday after he jumped in to save his dog, who had fallen in while the two were out for a walk. Ill. police have run-in with 'disorderly' squirrel Police officers in McHenry, Illinois, had a recent run-in with a 'disorderly' squirrel. The squirrel entered the police station through the front door and eventually left without injury. Nathan Fillion on his new series: ‘People love cop shows’ Actor Nathan Fillion says he could never be a police officer in real life, because the stakes on the job are too high. Fillion plays the Los Angeles Police Department’s oldest newbie in his new TV series “The Rookie.” Policeman knifed by London Bridge attackers completes marathon A police officer knifed by the London Bridge attackers after tackling them with his bare hands has finished the London Marathon - despite not having fully recovered.

Charlie Guenigault, 26, ran to raise money for King's College Hospital where he ... WATCH: EFF in heated brawl at East London Hungry Lion franchise Police have opened a case of assault following a scuffle between members of the Economic Freedom Fighters and staff at a Hungry Lion outlet in East London.

The incident took place on Friday. WATCH: Gigaba apologises for pinky finger gesture Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba has apologised unreservedly for making a gesture with his pinky finger at an EFF MP during Parliament's volatile sitting on Tuesday. In Nairobi al-Shabab claims role in deadly attack Extremists attacked a luxury hotel in Kenya's capital Tuesday, sending people fleeing in panic as explosions and heavy gunfire reverberated through the complex and black smoke rose over the scene. A witness reported seeing at least two bodies. Police officer accused of car attack acted like a bully, court told A police officer acted like a "bully in uniform" after sawing through a suspect's car windscreen, a court has heard. Baby 'saved' by police officer A Florida officer rushes to action when a mother flags him down to help her unresponsive baby. Video: Officers catch Texas boy jumping from fire A police officer's body camera caught the moment a boy jumped from the second floor of a Dallas-area apartment into the arms of officers below. Firefighters arrived with a ladder a short time later, so the boy's mother could climb down. Policeman being attacked by bull! Bull attacking police officer. Policeman Shoots Bear Out Of Car A US Police officer released a bear trapped in a car by shooting out the back window. Swara Bhasker turns Police officer for web series FLESH Actress Swara Bhasker is undergoing action workshops with action directors to prepare for the role of a police officer in crime thriller series "Flesh". An Eros Now's show, "Flesh" revolves around the global human trafficking industry and how a po... College town mourns killing of rookie officer Just weeks on the Davis, California police force, 22-year-old Natalie Corona was shot and killed while investigating a traffic accident. The suspect was later found dead by apparent suicide. WATCH: 'VBS looters, pay back the money' - DA, EFF in war of words President Cyril Ramaphosa's last oral reply for the year came to an abrupt halt when the DA and EFF exchanged insults in Parliament. Watch. Vaani Kapoor and Neha Dhupia TAKE on Social Media TROLLING Actress Vaani Kapoor, Neha Dhupia recently spoke about trolling on social media at seventh edition of Femina Stylista West 2019. Their comments came days after her "Befikre" co-star Ranveer Singh was trolled after he posted a photoghraph of his al... Laquan McDonald cover up case ends in acquittal A judge has acquitted three Chicago police officers of trying to cover up the 2014 shooting of Laquan McDonald, ruling that the dashcam video of the black teenager's death did not necessarily tell the whole story. Two police officers killed after gunmen storm Karachi Chinese Consulate Two policemen are killed as gunmen storm the Chinese Consulate in Karachi. Authorities say the attackers opened fire at consulate guards before breaching the main gate. The three gunmen who stormed were then shot dead by police. Video shows struggle between fugitive, officer Video footage taken before the fatal shooting of a Pennsylvania man by a suburban Chicago police officer shows a struggle with the armed man who was wanted in the death of another man. Security guard killed by police, mother sues The mother of Jemel Roberson, an armed security guard who was shot and killed by a police officer while working at a Chicago bar, has filed a federal lawsuit alleging excessive force. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. Squirrel steals doughnut off a policeman in Alaska A squirrel decides to steal a doughnut off a policeman from the Anchorage Police Department in Alaska. New York police officers take on skipping challenge Two officers show off their skipping skills as they compete against each other in New York. Yonkers Police Department posted the video of their officers skipping with members of the community. U.S. communities rethink Taser use as death toll rises Communities across the U.S. are rethinking police use of Tasers amid a rising death toll. Police officer gunned down in Mobile, Alabama Mobile, Alabama Police Chief Lawrence Batiste told reporters that Police Officer Sean Tuder was shot and killed Sunday afternoon. Batiste said one suspect has been taken into custody. Police: 5 dead, gunman arrested in bank shooting Authorities say five people have been killed in a shooting at a Florida bank and the gunman has been arrested. Meet Hello Kitty's biggest fan A former police officer in Japan has a collection worth a quarter of a million dollars. Chicago cop sentenced to more than six years for Laquan McDonald murder A judge sentences former Chicago police officer Jason Van Dyke to more than six years in prison, after a jury found him guilty of murder last year in the 2014 shooting of black teenager Laquan McDonald. Wisconsin girl found alive after three months After missing for nearly three months, 13-year-old Jayme Closs was found alive Thursday evening after she apparently fled her captor in the remote community of Gordon, Wisconsin. Colette Luke has more. Alleged attack against "Empire" star Jussie Smollett is being investigated as a possible hate crime An alleged attack against "Empire" star Jussie Smollett is being investigated as a possible hate crime. The 36-year-old actor, who is black and gay and plays the gay character Jamal Lyon on the hit show "Empire" reportedly took himself to the hosp... House fire kills three young siblings in Indiana Three young siblings were killed and their mother was injured trying to save them from a house fire in Tell City, Indiana Five dead in Florida bank shooting Authorities say five people have been killed in a shooting at a Florida bank.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.