Tammy Petersen WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. Protest in support of the teacher who slapped a pupil at Sans Souci Girls' High School. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The mother of a child who was slapped by her teacher at a top Cape Town school on Wednesday said criminal charges have been laid. And it appears that the teacher, in turn, has laid a charge of her own. Police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana confirmed "counter-cases" of assault had been opened for investigation following the incident at Sans Souci Girls' High School on Tuesday – one on behalf of the pupil and another by the 33-year-old teacher. No arrests have been made. READ: Teacher at top Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl The teenager's mother, who News24 will not name to protect the minor's identity, told journalists outside the school gates on Wednesday that the "matter has been escalated", but she would not speak further of the incident recorded in a classroom on Tuesday. A clip of the violent altercation went viral on social media. It showed an apparent verbal quarrel over a book escalating. The pupil shoved the teacher, who retaliated by striking the teenager across the face. Frustrated, saddened and disappointed The woman said as a mother, she felt frustrated, saddened and disappointed. Her daughter, she said, was a "strong girl and will get over this". A group of pupils at the school on Wednesday staged a protest in support of the teacher. They made a poster which read: "It's not about race". Education MEC Debbie Schafer on Wednesday said the actions of the teacher were unacceptable and that any form of corporal punishment in schools would not be tolerated. She confirmed that an investigation into what had transpired was under way and would determine whether the pupil would, like the teacher, face disciplinary action. Zero-tolerance stance against ill-discipline "Through the school's code of conduct, schools should state clearly what kinds of behaviour are unacceptable. Should a learner transgress, then the school has the right to discipline the learner," Schafer said in a statement. "The WCED (Western Cape Education Department) will support schools that ensure that the relevant disciplinary procedures are followed when it comes to any form of violence or antisocial behaviour in our schools. This is because we take a zero-tolerance stance on learners that transgress various disciplinary codes by attacking or assaulting their fellow learners or educators. "At the same time, we ask that educators exercise control when confronted with issues of ill-discipline. It has been mentioned on many an occasion that educators feel unsure how to deal with discipline in their classroom. While there is not a 'one size fits all' approach to unruly behaviour in our schools, there are certain methods that can be adopted to deal with different circumstances." The teacher in the video was a school governing body (SGB) appointee. The SGB was expected to meet on Wednesday to discuss disciplinary steps. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. WATCH: Fist bumps, high fives and dance-offs - teacher lets children choose how to say hello A Western Cape teacher has gone above and beyond to make each of her Grade R learners feel special every single morning. Zuleka Smit hands out fist bumps, high fives and dance-offs at her class door instead of a traditional formal greeting. WATCH: 10-year-old whizz-kid solves complex maths problems in just seconds 10-year-old Sbahle Zwane was in pre-school when his teacher first noticed his extraordinary gift with numbers. The Grade 4 learner first gained popularity for his impressive mental maths skills after videos of him went viral on social media. WATCH. WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. Children's Mental Health Week: Meditation pod installed at Essex school Footage of the meditation pod at Longwood Primary Academy in Harlow, Essex. Interviews with Year 6 pupils Elissa and George. Founders of Inhere Meditation Ghazal Abrishamchi and Adiba Osmani, Headteacher James Hollinsley. Why classrooms are starting to resemble arcades A vast array of apps, websites and software in schools today borrow elements from video games to help teachers connect with students living technology-infused lives. In Pakistan public education suffocates under surging population At the Tanjai Cheena school in northwest Pakistan students squeeze into makeshift classrooms where plastic tarps serve as walls and electricity is sparse, as a surging population overstretches the country's fragile education system.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.