Sesona Ngqakamba School classroom. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The parents of an 11-year-old Gauteng boy, diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and high functioning autism, want answers for their son's apparent "unfair" suspension from a special school. His mother told News24 that her son attended Protea School in Springs, east of Ekurhuleni, since 2016. She cannot be named in order to protect the identity of her minor son. She said her son was suspended last Tuesday and that no valid reasons were provided, adding that the school didn’t even call them in to warn them about any problems involving their son. When News24 reached out to the school it was told to direct media queries to the provincial education department. The provincial Department of Education confirmed the suspension and is investigating the mother's allegations. The mother said she and the child's father received an email that informed them of the suspension. It stated, among other things, that the boy had an anger outburst. "Now suddenly the day before yesterday (last Tuesday) I got an email stating that our son is suspended. We have never had any warning letters, not any meetings and we don't really know why he is suspended. "They only listed certain things that are in the Government Gazette and they are not telling us what he did and when he did anything wrong," the frustrated mother said. READ: Autistic boy, 11, will finally be going to school after 'teaching' himself under tree She added that they couldn't understand why the school found their son's behaviour problematic when the it was meant to be a special school that was supposed to be able to deal with such behaviour. "One of the symptoms of autism is anger, frustration, anxiety etc. So when my son gets upset, he can't help what he says or cannot control his emotions because he is autistic and those behaviours are part of the symptoms." She also claimed that the school didn't know how to deal with autistic children and it was frustrating for them because they had to move to Springs so that their son could attend the school. The mother said their woes with the school dated back to 2016 when the principal apparently refused to have her son admitted. She claimed that the principal argued that her son had epilepsy. After they argued otherwise, she said the boy was admitted. But it didn't end there. Frustrated In 2017, the principal hit the son in his face, the mother alleged. She said the case was under police investigation. "Conveniently for them, they made the video footage disappear but I have photos of my son's face four hours after he was hit. I opened a case at the police station and it is still with the prosecutor", she said. ALSO READ: 10 things every child with autism wishes you knew The school has allowed the child to attend school during the assessment period while on suspension, the department of Education confirmed. However, the mother said she was frustrated because she had to prepare him. "The school has been instructed to develop an academic catch-up plan to be provided to the parents after the conclusion of the disciplinary support meeting, which we encourage parents to attend," spokesperson Steve Mabona said. No autism diagnosis was submitted to the school Mabona added that the department was also investigating allegations that the boy had been hit in the face. "That is unacceptable and cannot be tolerated to happen in our environment. No child will be harmed, especially by people tasked with a huge responsibility of taking care of them," he said. Mabona said that an autism diagnosis was not submitted to the school. When the pupil was admitted to the school in 2016, he was classified as a learner with "a specific learning disorder", he said. A full neurological evaluation was recommended because the boy appeared to have a short concentration span. "Previously, he was diagnosed by a medical practitioner with both attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) as well as obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) and the educational psychologist, Dr Barbara Maritz, observed a tremor during her intellectual assessment of [the boy]," Mabona said. It was not a school-based educational psychologist. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  SA's top matriculant missed half the school year due to a rare disease After missing almost six months of schooling last year, SACS matriculant Andrew Tucker managed to nab the coveted spot of SA's best matriculant. From 54% to 94%: Vaal school starts new year on a high as one of Gauteng's most improved schools The first day of the 2019 year school started on a high note at Moqhaka Secondary School in the South of Johannesburg. WATCH: Cape Flats school increased matric pass rate by over 30% The Cape Flats suburb of Delft has one of the highest rates of violent crime in the country but matric pupils at one high school have risen above their circumstances to record an impressive 31.1% increase in their 2018 pass rate. WATCH: Cape pupil awarded for matriculating after surviving deadly fire Lance Minnies came close to losing his life in a deadly 2016 fire and almost gave up on his studies when he recovered. But it was the hope for a better future and the support of caring people at his school that pulled him through. WATCH: 10-year-old whizz-kid solves complex maths problems in just seconds 10-year-old Sbahle Zwane was in pre-school when his teacher first noticed his extraordinary gift with numbers. The Grade 4 learner first gained popularity for his impressive mental maths skills after videos of him went viral on social media. WATCH. WATCH: 127 inmates receive qualifications at inspirational graduation ceremony The Department of Correctional Services handed out 127 qualifications, including one master's degree, to graduating offenders on Friday. Watch the video above. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. WATCH: Khayelitsha school bids to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place Chairperson of Enkanini Primary's School Governing Body Andile Lili shows what the school is doing in a bid to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place at the school in Khayelitsha WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. WATCH: Pupils prepare for the digital age by building their own robots Meet Bongani and Mbali. Two robots built by 9 school pupils involved in the robotics course of the Melisizwe Computer Labs Project in Johannesburg. WATCH: 19-year-old inmate aspires to become neurosurgeon Liam Bradford,19, is an inmate at Boksburg Prison's juvenile section. Bradford dreams of becoming a neurosurgeon to help disabled children. Watch. WATCH: Little Maths genius scores prestigious scholarship In September, 2018, News24 interviewed 10-year-old math genius, Sbahle Zwane.
One month later, the Zwane family received news that Sbahle had been granted a scholarship at the prestigious Curro Academy in Protea Glen, Soweto. WATCH. WATCH: Dancing to a new tune at the Hillbrow music school The youth of the inner-city community of Hillbrow can find solace in music, thanks to Amisi "Coco" Mubale and the Hillbrow Music Centre. Watch. Head boy and top achiever ready to 'get his future started' King David High School Linksfield's 2017 head boy, who earned seven distinctions in the IEB matric exams, has some advice for those entering their matric year. WATCH: Limpopo matriculant comes out tops despite textbook, computer shortage Dimpho Phalane, a matriculant at Mampotjane Secondary School in Limpopo, could barely contain her excitement when she realised she was one of the country's top achievers. 'Consistency was key for me' - Rebecca Haines, top matric mathematics achiever Top matric mathematics achiever Rebecca Haines from Rustenburg High School For Girls in Cape Town says her excellent results came down to working consistently. 'The bigger plan is to become president,' says top matric performer Tumelo Mashigo, part of the class of 2017, hopes to one day be president.

The 18-year-old was the second best performing learner with special needs among the most recent matriculants and hopes to make the world a better place one day.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.