Sarah Evans An unruly passenger was thrown out of a minibus taxi for
allegedly being drunk and causing fights with passengers on Saturday night,
paramedics have said. The man was then hit by a car afterwards and sustained minor
injuries, paramedics said. Netcare911 spokesperson Shawn Herbst said paramedics were
called to the scene at about 20:10 on Saturday night, following reports of a
pedestrian and a vehicle collision on the corners of Main and Lonehill
Boulevard in Johannesburg. "Reports from the scene indicate that an adult
sustained minor injuries after he was thrown out a minibus taxi for allegedly
being intoxicated and causing fights with the passengers." The patient was assessed on scene by an advanced life
support paramedic and found to be in a stable condition,” said Herbst. The man refused transport to a hospital, he said. Gauteng police were not immediately available to comment on
the incident. Gauteng: An adult male passenger was injured after being thrown out a mini-bus taxi on the corners of Main and Lonehill Blvd in Sandton after fighting with passengers. @News24 @_ArriveAlive @netstartraffic @EWNTraffic @TrafficSA @RAF_SA @FatalMoves @Sandton_News @sandtontimes pic.twitter.com/IqBJUUWqNU  Car rolls in Krugersdorp Meanwhile, in a separate incident in the early hours of
Sunday morning, a driver was flung from his vehicle after it rolled several
times in Krugersdorp. The man is in a critical condition. Herbst said that shortly before 05:00 on Sunday morning,
paramedics were informed about a collision on Robert Broom Drive. "Reports from the scene indicate that the driver of a
light motor vehicle, who is the sole occupant of the car, lost control,
resulting in the vehicle rolling several times. The patient, a male aged
approximately 25 years old, was ejected from the vehicle in the process,"
he said. Herbst added that the man sustained a "traumatic brain
injury" and was taken to hospital. Gauteng: An adult male has sustained serious injuries after being thrown from his vehicle during a rollover on Robert Broom Dr in Krugersdorp. @FatalMoves @News24 @IOL @_ArriveAlive @netstartraffic @EWNTraffic @TrafficSA @RAF_SA @KrugersdorpNews @SABCNewsOnline @Powerfm987 pic.twitter.com/oRqF198RNc  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Woman in critical condition after Audi horror crash A woman is in a critical condition after the Audi she was traveling in veered off the road, became airborne and slammed into a sign post, emergency services have said. WATCH: Bakkie careens down Bo-Kaap hill, narrowly misses woman A woman narrowly escaped injury as a bakkie came careening down a hill in the Bo-Kaap. Video footage of the incident surfaced online recently.

According to ER24, the incident happened on Tuesday, October 16. WATCH: Emergency personnel working to free people trapped under collided trains At least three people have been confirmed dead, while scores of others have been left injured following a train collision at Mountain View station, Pretoria on
Tuesday morning. WATCH: Trains collide at Mountain View station in Pretoria One person has been confirmed dead, while scores of others have been left injured following a train collision at Mountain View station, Pretoria on Tuesday morning. Newborn baby rescued from storm drain in SAfrica Rescue workers in South Africa pulled a newborn baby from a storm drain in a four-hour operation that ended with applause and cheers from onlookers. Seven-year-old dials 999 to save his mother after she passes out Audio has been released after a boy aged seven, who  phoned 999 when his mother collapsed at home.
Noah Gofur was praised after calling the emergency services and guiding paramedics to the house. Police called to fight between Blac Chyna and boyfriend Police and paramedics were called to Blac Chyna's hotel room after she got into a fight with her boyfriend Kid Buu while on vacation in Hawaii. Toddler tumbles out of moving vehicle in Minn. Authorities in Minnesota say a 2-year-old child is OK after tumbling from the back seat of a moving vehicle while still strapped in a car seat. Suspected CS spray released in Bournemouth club Cameo Forty people were treated by paramedics after an irritant - suspected to be CS spray - was reportedly released inside Bournemouth nightclub Cameo. Florence downgraded as death toll climbs Florence was downgraded to tropical storm from a hurricane Friday as it thrashed and lingered over the Carolina coast, killing residents in its wake. Conway G. Idris Elba issues desperate plea to knife-wielding teens Idris Elba has reacted to the recent pictures of paramedics and police tending to victims of a mass stabbing involving 30 teenagers on an estate in South London, and he's made a plea to the youth in the city. Meet the mother-and-son team working as London Ambulance paramedics Linda Cray has worked in the London Ambulance Service since 1982 - and has spent the last four years working alongside her son, Darran. Teen shot, covered with sheet, but still alive Police say a Chicago teen presumed dead and covered with a sheet after he was shot in the head was still alive and died a day later. Skiier Bode Miller's daughter drowns in pool The 19-month-old daughter of U.S. Olympic skier Bode Miller drowned in a pool in California, the athlete announced on Monday afternoon. Murder probe launched after man found stabbed in west London A murder investigation has been launched after a man was found with multiple stab wounds in west London.

Scotland Yard said officers and paramedics were called to the scene on Cathcart Road, Kensington, at just after 10.20pm on Wednesday. Florida shooting: 'I heard five pops' Paramedics treat the injured on the street as other students are marched to safety by armed police. Duke and Duchess of Cambridge perform communications exercise at paramedic training centre The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge visit Coventry University to open a GBP59 million training centre for nurses, midwives and paramedics.

William and Kate will tour the institution's new science and health building during a day in the city.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.