Correspondent Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The sentencing of a Limpopo pastor who was convicted of raping two teenage girls will now only take place next month. Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo said proceedings against pastor James Thobakgale, 57, of Devine Deliverance Church in Seshego were postponed due to medical reasons. The pastor will be sentenced for raping the two girls, aged 14 and 16, in 2012. On Monday, the pastor, along with five church elders, was arrested on more charges, according to The Citizen. Also read: Omotoso rape trial postponed to the new year Thobakgale and his co-accused were arrested during a snap operation led by the Seshego cluster commander, Major General Sam Mokgonyana said. The pastor is facing charges of fraud, assault and more than 40 charges of rape. Mojapelo told IOL that police were also investigating allegations that the deaths of church congregants might have been concealed. The pastor and his co-accused are expected to appear in court on Monday in connection with this week's arrest. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Infamous snake pastor strikes again, this time feeding dog meat to congregants Controversial "snake pastor" Penuel Mnguni who has fed snake and rat to his congregants has now chosen dog meat for communion. WATCH: Witness says she was 14 when pastor Timothy Omotoso started molesting her The first witness has taken the stand of the trial of controversial pastor Timothy Omotoso, taking place in Port Elizabeth. WATCH: Prophet Bushiri takes responsibility for deadly church stampede Prophet Shepherd Bushiri on Monday appeared at the CRL Rights Commission hearing looking into the stampede that claimed three lives at the Enlightened Christian Gathering Church (ECG) in Pretoria. WATCH: The church is bigger than Bushiri - ECG Church spokesperson Prophet Bushiri's Enlightened Christian Gathering church briefed the media on events following a deadly stampede at the church on December 28, 2018. WATCH: Straight from the horse's mouth - Pretoria preacher uses trusty steed to deliver sermon Seeing a man on a horse is a rare sight nowadays, and a man on his steed in a church, even more so.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.