Alex Mitchley PHOTO: nqobile mtolo Durban University of Technology student Smangele Buthelezi has been denied student accommodation registration because of outstanding fees from last year despite receiving a bursary from the Department Education. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The academic programme at all five Durban University of Technology (DUT) campuses is expected to resume on Monday, after management and the student representative council (SRC) reached common ground following protests. Programmes at DUT were suspended earlier this month after student Mlungisi Madonsela was shot dead during an altercation with security guards at one of the campuses. News24 previously reported that a group of about 30 students stoned an administration building on the day of the shooting, before proceeding to protest at different university gates. READ: DUT shooting – Security guards suspended after student dies Security at the gates called for back-up and it is understood that the student was shot during a confrontation at one of the gates. Where exactly the student was shot was also expected to form part of the investigation, police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele told News24. Students were protesting inadequate accommodation and lack of access to funding. According to a joint statement by university management and the SRC, classes at all DUT campuses will resume next week, provided that students who are currently appealing the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS), and who are staying in the Baltimore residence, are moved until the outcome of their appeal. It is understood that these appeals are as a result of students contesting their initial applications for funding by NSFAS. According to the statement, there are 232 students awaiting a decision on NSFAS funding. ALSO READ: Student protests flare up in Durban, march to City Hall planned This is against the backdrop that the University will be closing down the Baltimore and Hertine Court residences due to unsatisfactory conditions at both buildings. "Management agreed to this condition, subject to Student Housing Department confirming that the spaces still exist," the joint statement read. Additionally, students whose appeals are unsuccessful will be given 48 hours to vacate the residences. "Further, the meeting agreed that students who are waiting for their appeal decisions should be allowed to attend classes until their cases are finalised or on 15 March 2019 - whichever comes first." University management and the SRC have also agreed to work closely together to resolve all issues that can be attended to in the long term. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Buses burned, windows shattered in CPUT violence Vandals destroyed two buses and damaged buildings at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology's Bellville campus in the early hours of Wednesday morning. WATCH: TUT students march to the police ministry over student death Chaos erupted on Wednesday as around 300 students marched through the Pretoria CBD protesting over the death of a student who was allegedly shot by police last week. WATCH: Two police officers charged with murder of TUT student granted bail Two police officers were granted bail at the Soshanguve Magistrates Court on Tuesday. WATCH: This young Khayelitsha artist used drawing to escape drugs and alcohol abuse Luvo Khehla, a second-year graphics design student at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology, says art helped him escape a life of drug and alcohol abuse. WATCH: Queuing won't guarantee university admission The University of Johannesburg is urging prospective students to register online Instead of queuing on campus. WATCH: University of Limpopo, South Africa, students walk out of philosophy test University of Limpopo students this week walked out of an Educational Philosophy test. WATCH: Protesting students bring learning to a standstill at Wits The start of classes and daily administration operations were delayed at the University of the Witwatersrand on Thursday, after the student representative council (SRC) continued with protest action. Mini Budget 2018: Analysis with Professor Matthew Ocran Newly-minted Finance Minister Tito Mboweni delivered his maiden medium term budget policy statement in Parliament on Wednesday afternoon. WATCH: Suicide scourge forces students to march for better mental health support Around 100 students held a silent march through the University of Pretoria's main campus on Thursday.

This follows 23 reported attempted suicides by students at the institution in 2018 alone.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.