Alex Mitchley Police. (Photo: Getty Images/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A manhunt has been launched for a group of suspects who shot and killed three people during a business robbery at a shop in Eikenhof, Johannesburg on Friday evening. According to Gauteng police, the group of six or more suspects confronted the shop owner, his staff and customers in the store at around 19:00. The suspects started firing random shots in the shop and also stabbed one of the customers during the robbery. The owner and one of his employees were shot dead. WATCH: Joburg security guard wounded in shootout with armed robbery suspects A security guard was shot and wounded as he investigated a suspected business robbery on the corner of Prichard and Mooi Streets in Johannesburg last Saturday afternoon. One of the three customers in the shop was also shot and died on his way to hospital, police spokesperson Colonel Lungelo Dlamini confirmed in a statement. "An undisclosed amount of money was stolen. Police are investigating cases of murder, attempted murder and business robbery," said Dlamini. ER24 paramedics who attended the scene said one of the victims was already dead when they arrived on scene, and two others were in a critical condition. "While paramedics were treating one of the critically injured men on scene, his vital signs deteriorated. Despite their efforts to revive him, he was sadly later declared dead," ER24 spokesperson Werner Vermaak said in a statement. "Another man, also critically injured, was rushed to hospital. On route to hospital his vital signs deteriorated. Paramedics were unable to revive him, and he was also declared dead." The two other customers who were in the shop at the time of the robbery were treated for multiple gunshot wounds and rushed to a nearby hospital for further medical treatment.  Tributes to girl stabbed to death as father held in attempted murder inquiry The father of eight-year-old Mylee Billingham was arrested on suspicion of attempted murder, police said, as tributes pour in for the schoolgirl. Fighting food waste in South Africa Millions of people in South Africa don't have enough to eat. Still, a third of all the food there is thrown away. Now some producers and supermarkets are giving away food that's past its sell-by date to people in need. South Africa's contestant is crowned Miss Universe South Africa's Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters has been crowned Miss Universe. The 22-year-old, who recently earned a business management degree, beat 92 other women from around the world. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Eleven taxi drivers shot dead in South Africa Gunmen shot dead 11 taxi drivers returning to Johannesburg from the funeral of a colleague in Kwa-Zulu Natal. Is wee-cycling the future of building? Scientists in South Africa have come up with an innovative way to make bricks from urine. How to speak 'Black Panther' The official language of Wakanda is isiXhosa - also spoken in parts of South Africa South Africa: Muti - a threat to nature In order to meet the huge demand for the traditional remedies known as 'muti', plants in South Africa are being harvested on a scale that is no longer sustainable. The pepper-bark tree, for example, is widely used, even though it is endangered. South Africa's venomous and most dangerous spiders Do you know how to spot a potentially dangerous spider? Learn about South Africa's venomous spiders and how to protect your family. 8 Incredible hikes in SA that will clear the mind South Africa is blessed with some of the best hiking trails in the world, but here's just a few to get you started on planning your next trek through nature. Vedanta will invest Rs 8500 Cr more in South Africa Sources tell BTVI that London-based Vedanta will invest Rs 8500 crore more in South Africa. BTVI has also learnt that Vedanta chairman Anil Agarwal, who was part of the South African President Cyril Ramaphosa’s delegation for India’s Republic Day ... Trump weighs into South Africa's contested issue of land reform U.S. President Donald Trump is wading into a debate over the highly disproportionate ownership of land by whites in South Africa. Pretoria rejects his claim of "large scale killing of farmers". Matthew Larotonda and Ed Stoddard report. The death-defying megaloops of the world's best kitesurfers at King of the Air in South Africa Red Bull King of the Air 2019 kicked off with riders defying the laws of gravity in their quest for the biggest heights. South Africa's white farmers seek role in land reform as economic pressure grows White South African farmers are seeking a role in land reform as the ruling ANC moves to change the constitution to allow for the expropriation of white-owned land to rectify racial ownership disparities. Car bonnet hampers getaway for robbery suspects in Texas Texas police arrested a group suspected in a series of bank robberies after the bonnet on their getaway car covered the windshield as they were driving away on January 17. 'Our rail system has gone to the dogs' - DA protests at Prasa offices The Democratic Alliance held a picket outside the offices of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA) in Hatfield, Pretoria on Wednesday. S.Africa's EFF party supporters arrive ahead of Manifesto launch Supporters of South Africa's far-left Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) arrive at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve, Pretoria, ahead of the party's manifesto launch. Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. A holidaymaker's guide to SA's Sunshine Coast Spring has sprung and it's time to chase the sun in South Africa, and where better than to chase it all the way to its homeland on the Eastern Cape shores of the Sunshine Coast. WATCH: Protesters to Ramaphosa: Give us the money you give to the buffalo The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) and other trade unions took to the streets in Cape Town on Thursday to protest against police brutality and low wages. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. Woman says she aided man charged in fiance's death A woman admitted Friday that she helped thwart an investigation into the disappearance of a Colorado woman who authorities believe was killed by her fiance, but her motive and the nature of her relationship with the suspect remains a mystery. Three dead in California bowling alley shooting The Torrance Police Department responded to calls of "shots fired" at the Gable House Bowl shortly before midnight. Johannesburg's grandest old colonial club seeks new image With its imposing columned facade, hunting trophies and oil portraits, the Rand Club in Johannesburg's city centre is a relic of South Africa's colonial and apartheid past. But Alicia Thompson, a black woman born in Johannesburg, is seeking to rep... WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. WATCH LIVE: Jason Rohde sentencing procedures get underway Convicted murderer Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings will get underway in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday December 5. WATCH Hundreds of flamingo chicks admitted to SANCCOB for life-saving rehabilitation Over 2 000 abandoned and distressed flamingo chicks were jetted all over South Africa this week as part of a series of mercy flights from Kimberley after their habitat came under threat due to water problems. Teenagers get life sentences for fatal Valentine's Day attack on 17-year-old A gang of teenagers have been handed life sentences for murdering a 17-year-old boy who was mown down in a stolen BMW then stabbed 15 times in a Valentine's Day attack.

Lord Promise Nkenda was walking along the pavement in Newham, east London, wh... Miley Cyrus is in Cape Town, South Africa Miley Cyrus was spotted shopping in Cape Town, South Africa. Suspect sought in death of 7-year-old Texas girl Investigators in Houston said Monday that they have a surveillance video image of a pickup truck from which a driver fired several shots into a car carrying a family, killing a 7-year-old girl and wounding the child's mother. Kwesta, Cassper Nyovest and Nasty C among this celeb barber's famous clientele Celebrity barber Sheldon Tatchell is well-known for cutting the hair of Johannesburg's elite and now The Legends Barbershop will be setting up shop in Cape Town. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. One dead in stabbing rampage in Melbourne Australian police cordon off streets in downtown Melbourne after a rush hour stabbing rampage in which one person was killed and two others injured. South Africans confront a gloomy economic outlook South Africa's economy has entered recession for the first time since 2009, dealing a blow to President Cyril Ramaphosa's economic reform agenda. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma's culpable homicide trial postponed to March The culpable homicide case against Duduzane Zuma was postponed to March 26 in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday. Suspect dead, 3 officers shot in Houston Authorities in Texas say one sheriff's deputy and two officers from the Texas Attorney General's Office were shot while serving a family violence warrant at a Houston-area home. The suspect was found dead in the house hours later. Alexandre Bissonnette sentenced to serve 40 years in prison The man who opened fire during evening prayers at a Quebec City mosque in 2017 has been sentenced to serve 40 years in prison before being eligible for parole. Quebec Superior Court Justice Francois Huot called Alexandre Bissonnette's attack gratu... Car hood hampers getaway for robbery suspects Police in Texas have arrested a group of people suspected in a series of bank robberies after the hood on the car they were using to flee authorities popped up and covered the windshield, obscuring the road. 78,000 x 550? This boy knows the answer Sibahle Zwane is only 10, but his maths skills have made him an internet sensation in South Africa. 3-year-old girl stabbed at birthday party dies A 3-year-old girl who was stabbed by a man who went on a rampage at the child's birthday party in Boise, Idaho at the weekend, has died. 'It's embarrassing we're called cheats' Australian cricket fans are unimpressed with their team's cheating scandal in South Africa. Here are 7 things you may not have known about Babes Wodumo She's one of the most popular female artists in South Africa at the moment, but how well do you actually know Babes Wodumo? (Photos: Gallo Images) WATCH: Joburg security guard wounded in shootout with armed robbery suspects A security guard was shot and wounded as he investigated a suspected business robbery on the corner of Prichard and Mooi Streets in Johannesburg last Saturday afternoon.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.