Sesona Ngqakamba WATCH: Bushiri 'a true man of god' - supporters Hundreds of devoted supporters of embattled self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri gathered outside court again on Wednesday to show their support. Watch. Prophet Shepard Bushiri addresses the media outside court in Tshwane. (Morapedi Mashashe) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The police say self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri was allowed to leave court in a police nyala as a security measure. Officers ushered Bushiri, 35, and his wife Mary, 37, out of court in a heavy-duty vehicle when they were granted R100 000 bail each on Wednesday. But there were questions raised about why the police gave them preferential treatment. Hawks spokesperson Hangwani Mulaudzi explained that it was decided that the pair should be transported out in a nyala to avoid demonstrators mobbing officers or the couple. WATCH: Hundreds of Bushiri supporters picket outside court Hundreds of supporters of self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri gathered outside the Commercial Crimes Court in Pretoria on Monday morning. 

Bushiri and his wife appeared briefly after being arrested on Friday for fraud and money laundering. This after the police saw that some protesting congregants and supporters wanted to get inside the court. WATCH: Bushiri speaks after being granted bail - Good spirits, poison, no sleep and a Bible reading "We got an undertaking that it was very necessary at that time and the situation was very controlled. He was only given 60 seconds to speak to his people and we felt it was necessary that we allow him to speak to his people," Mulaudzi said. He added they received information from the police after probing why state resources were used. Bushiri waved at his supporters from the nyala. The Hawks arrested the couple last Friday on charges of fraud and money laundering. Among their bail conditions is an order that the couple remain in the Gauteng and North West provinces. The case was postponed to May 10. The Enlightened Christian Gathering Church, which Bushiri leads, has been the centre of attention in recent weeks following a stampede there on December 28, 2018. The CRL Rights Commission, after conducting a two-day hearing to look into the incident, found that Bushiri and his church were not responsible for the stampede in which three people died. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   WATCH: Prophet Bushiri takes responsibility for deadly church stampede Prophet Shepherd Bushiri on Monday appeared at the CRL Rights Commission hearing looking into the stampede that claimed three lives at the Enlightened Christian Gathering Church (ECG) in Pretoria. WATCH: The church is bigger than Bushiri - ECG Church spokesperson Prophet Bushiri's Enlightened Christian Gathering church briefed the media on events following a deadly stampede at the church on December 28, 2018. WATCH: Witness says she was 14 when pastor Timothy Omotoso started molesting her The first witness has taken the stand of the trial of controversial pastor Timothy Omotoso, taking place in Port Elizabeth.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.