Canny Maphanga Minister Michael Masutha (GCIS) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Justice and Correctional Services Minister Michael Masutha has revealed that he will be looking at prospects to extricate his department from its Bosasa contracts. "If we take Bosasa as a starting point, I repeatedly asked the management of correctional services, how did we end up being in a situation where we have had to use virement [the process of transferring items from one financial account to another] year in, year out to fund this outsourced service?" he said at the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) headquarters in Tshwane on Friday. He was speaking at a briefing to introduce the newly appointed National Director of Public Prosecutions (NDPP), advocate Shamila Batohi, to NPA staff and management. Last week, startling revelations were made at the commission of inquiry into state capture by former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi regarding the company's dealings with government. The Citizen reports that among the tenders Bosasa scored at Correctional Services, were the following: "The explanations I got is that the catering equipment became obsolete and unaffordable for the department to replace them. That is one of the factors [that] led to outsourcing. "I was listening to the Zondo commission and wondering if this explanation was some narrative artificially created to justify something that was not genuine. I suppose the truth will finally prevail," he added. In light of these recent revelations, national police commissioner General Khehla Sitole advised the minister that they are reviewing the contracts. "I have been deeply concerned since I took office about this perpetual outsourcing. "I look forward to a report soon from him as to the prospects of us extricating ourselves from this and restoring our own insourcing of this service," he said.  WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi testifies at state capture inquiry The Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture resumed on Wednesday with former Bosasa employee Angelo Agrizzi on the witness stand. LIVE LUNCHTIME ANALYSIS: Gordhan challenges his detractors, says Treasury was a target Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan continued with his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture after scratching the surface in detailing incidents of malfeasance within government. WATCH: 'I am fine for duty' – Correctional services to investigate apparently drunk officer The Department of Correctional Services is investigating an officer who appeared to be intoxicated in a video that went viral on social media. LISTEN: That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry - Agrizzi to implicate more officials Former Bosasa chief operating officer Angelo Agrizzi will be back on the witness stand for a fifth day and more officials are expected to be implicated in his testimony. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry: Agrizzi continues his testimony, who will be implicated? Angelo Agrizzi has revealed more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. LUNCHTIME ANALYSIS: News24 unpacks Gordhan's #StateCapture revelation Watch as Pieter du Toit, News24 assistant editor of in-depth news, and journalist Tshidi Madia unpack Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordha's revelations at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Agrizzi details unfair advantage given to Bosasa to secure 'one of the biggest' tenders Former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi is on the stand for the fifth day at the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi continues to testify at state capture inquiry - Day 2 The second day of testimony by former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi at the commission of inquiry into state capture is set to be far more explosive and damning for the ruling ANC party and his former colleagues. ANALYSIS | #StateCaptureInquiry: Unpacking Agrizzi's testimony Watch as News24 investigative journalist Kyle Cowen and journalist Jeanette Chabalala unpack former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi's revelations at the state capture commission. WATCH: Bosasa and #StateCapture | Here's what you need to know... Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.