Tshidi Madia Former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor has admitted that she may have incorrectly identified a man she was introduced to by Duduzane Zuma as Fana Hlongwane during her testimony at the Zondo commission into state capture. ( Conrad Bornman, Gallo Images, Rapport, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor remains adamant that she caught an SAA flight to Johannesburg and back to Cape Town on a Monday sometime between September and October in 2010. This is despite records before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture reflecting that she caught a return flight to Gauteng via SAA on Friday, October 15. Mentor is being cross-examined at the commission following her testimony in August 2018. She posted on her Facebook account that she had been offered the position of public enterprises minister by the Gupta brothers if she stopped SAA's direct flights to India. She also claimed former president Jacob Zuma was at the family's Saxonwold mansion when the offer was made to her. Mentor faced off with commission evidence leader Mahlape Sello who quizzed her on her travel plans around that period. Previously, Mentor was told there was no evidence of her travel arrangements with SAA but admitted during Monday's session that there were two other flights discovered via the agency Parliament used. 'I stand by that' "SAA appears to have missed a flight or two as indicated in the parliamentary record," she explained. Mentor agreed with the argument that there was a disparity between some of the travel arrangements done in Parliament versus directly via the airline. "I say I have a problem with these records and I maintain that I flew from Cape Town to Johannesburg on a particular Monday and I returned on that same Monday back to Cape Town and during that visit I was taken to Sahara and to Saxonwold where I met the president. I stand by that," said Mentor. To highlight the disparities between the records, Sello also mentioned a flight Mentor took to Kimberly on November 4, which was contained in the parliamentary records but is not reflected at SAA. Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, who is also chairperson of the commission, asked Mentor if she wanted to consider changing her version. The former MP insisted she was correct, saying she was "very clear" about the details. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part1) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part 3) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part 2) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. LISTEN: Bosasa bosses Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma [WITH SUBTITLES] In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. The Zuma presidency: Scandals and successes Jacob Zuma has faced some controversies during his time as ANC leader. South Africa's Zuma says he will resign 'with immediate effect' South Africa's President Jacob Zuma has said he will resign "with immediate effect".

Mr Zuma made the announcement late on Wednesday in a televised address to the nation. S Africa 'captured by corrupt elements' South Africa's President Zuma feels "anxious" about his future, says ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. 'I never thought we would choose corruption' Makhosi Khoza received death threats after branding President Jacob Zuma "a disgrace".   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.