Correspondent A screenshot of 'Marelize' on her bicycle.  (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A video of a girl crashing her bicycle into rugby poles has been going viral, not so much because of her lack of co-ordination, but mostly owing to the reaction of the person recording the "epic fail". In the video, "Marelize" rides her bicycle on what appears to be the rugby field at Affies Park in Windhoek. She rides in a circular motion and then heads straight for the rugby poles, before crashing right into them. The woman filming it then exclaims in Afrikaans: "My fok, Marelize...", before starting to walk toward her. The origin of the video and the identity of Marelize are not known, but the footage has been widely distributed on social media platforms, with many commenters saying that "My fok, Marelize" is quickly becoming a new Afrikaans catchphrase to express irritation or exasperation. #MyFokMarelize ?? pic.twitter.com/ZEJ6qObUDT   Charcoal challenge takes Facebook by storm posing the question: 'is it racist?' A bizarre new social media challenge that sees participants turning their heads black by inverting a bag of charcoal over their heads, has raised eyebrows online. Social Media - How Life Online Makes Us Smarter How is living online changing us? Author Clive Thompson argues that we shouldn’t fear the likes of Facebook and Twitter because it’s helping us to achieve things we couldn’t have done before. Man shot by cyclist in Belle Vale A 27-year-old man dies after being shot by a gunman riding a push bike in Belle Vale, Liverpool. Elderly, conservatives shared more Facebook fakery A new study by researchers at Princeton University shows that people over 65 years old and ultra-conservatives shared about seven times more false information than other groups during the 2016 election season. New footage shows devastation of Liverpool car park blaze New footage shows the extent of the fire that scorched a car park in Kings Dock in Liverpool. A Land Rover burst into flames on Sunday before turning the building into an inferno. The rugby ball Videographic examining the history of the rugby ball. The prestigious Six Nations rugby union competition kicks off on Friday in Paris. Steve Carell hit by car while riding his bike Steve Carell was just left pretty shaken up after a car hit him while he was out riding his bike. Labour: Fine social media sites that fail to protect kids Fine social media sites that fail to protect children, Labour says What makes TikTok tick? TikTok has quickly become one of the most popular social media platforms in the world, attracting around 500 million active users a month. But what is the craze all about? #TikTok Take a look at Peugeot's new fold-out electric bicycle The new Peugeot Ef01 electric bike integrates perfectly into the back of the new 5008 SUV. 
The bike has been designed to be used for the 'last mile' of a commute - when drivers find it the hardest to find a parking space. Ishaan Khattar trolled for riding bike with headphones on Dhadak actor Ishaan Khattar, get trolled recently for wearing headphones while riding bicycle on Mumbai roads. The dirt bikes of DC Is riding a dirt bike down a city street a harmless form of relaxation or a menace? When you use the wrong breaks... A man riding a mountain bike fails when using the breaks. Bike Fail A mountain biker goes over the handlebars after failing to complete a jump. Niall Horan calls for end to 'disgusting' social media bashing Pop star Niall Horan has urged social media users to stop posting nasty comments online, insisting cyber-bullying has spiralled out of control. Rugby World Cup: Japanese pub chain at the ready Thousands of fans are expected to arrive in Japan for the Rugby World Cup later this year, with some local pubs ready to cash in. Wolfpack's Cory Paterson calls Toronto reception 'humbling' The Toronto Wolfpack rugby league team claimed a 32-12 victory over the London Broncos in Saturday's official home opener. Forward Cory Paterson says the reception from Toronto fans was "overwhelming.". Cyclist says she's sad over bike ban in Mount Royal Cemetery As of August 1, a cemetery atop Mount Royal in Montreal, a popular spot for cyclists, will no longer permit bicycles on its property. One rider says she believes the ban comes after some cyclists were not respectful of the grounds. Chargin' at San Francisco Hills with Electric Jump Bikes Jump Bikes is a newer bike share program that launched in San Francisco. They use electric assist bikes so you can reach speeds up to 20mph. I rode around the city with the CEO of Jump Bikes Ryan Rzepecki to learn about the company. Super Rugby 2019 preview: Lions in profile A look at the profile of Super Rugby franchise the Lions ahead of the 2019 season. Draxler calls for PSG to focus on UCL tie at Manchester United rather than missing stars Paris Saint-Germain's Julian Draxler is confident his team will 'draw strength from the group' despite his team being without Neymar, Edinson Cavani, and Thomas Meunier for their round-of-16 first-leg tie against Manchester United on Tuesday. Drax... Fixing bikes in Marrakech Jobs for young people are scarce in Morocco. Many think they stand a better chance of a decent future in Europe. Those with marketable skills are more likely to thrive at home. A project in Marrakech trains bicycle mechanics and tour guides. Velo Liberte Paris' ambitious Velo Liberte bike initiative encourages residents to forgo cars for bikes and public transportation. In the process, the programme has fostered a unique popular culture, complete with its own language, jokes and pick-up lines. Briton cleared of one-punch attack on ex-Australia Rugby Sevens captain The British man accused of a one-punch attack on a former captain of Australia's Rugby Sevens team has been cleared at court. Serving soldier trains Estonian rugby team A former professional rugby player and current serving soldier has begun training the Estonian rugby team during a deployment to the country.
Corporal Chris Budgen has played for the Exeter Chiefs and Northampton Saints. Venezuelan prisoners find in rugby a way to reintegrate society Thanks to a program started more than a decade ago to rehabilitate young gang members, inmates from 13 of Venezuela's most dangerous prisons play rugby as a way to leave behind bad habits and reintegrate into society. Water -based rugby tournament makes a splash Water -based rugby tournament makes a splash Rugby injuries Videographic illustrating common rugby injuries. The Six Nations rugby competition gets under way on Friday. "Germany's forgotten genocide in Namibia " Namibia's Herero people have filed a lawsuit in the US against Germany over a genocide in the early 20th century. Rugby injuries Videographic about common rugby injuries. A French teenager has died after suffering a heart attack after receiving a heavy tackle while playing rugby at the weekend. This incident comes four months after the death of another young French rugby pl... Rugby injuries Videographic illustrating common rugby injuries. French rugby was left mourning the death of a 23-year-old student on Monday, the fourth young player to have died in eight months. In Russia, 'snow rugby' is making its mark An oval ball, five players per team and races in powder snow: to avoid getting too bored during the long winter months, the Russians have adopted "snezhnoye-rugby", literally "snow rugby". The discipline is booming in the year of the Rugby World C... 'Snow rugby' catches on in Russia A new sport is capturing the interest of amateur rugby players in Russia - 'snow rugby'. Quick Guide to Namibia With 120-days visa-free available to South Africans, why not plan your next Afri-Travel escape in Namibia. Here's the key info you need to know about. How rugby could tackle Japan's tattoo angst World Rugby has advised players to cover-up tattoos during next year's World Cup in Japan, but many advocates for the body art hope the arrival of inked athletes sparks a debate in a country with a complicated relationship with tattoos. Germany returns human remains of Namibia genocide Human remains of tribespeople who were killed as a reprisal to a revolt against land seizures in Namibia in the colonial era were handed over by Germany at a church ceremony in Berlin on August 29. Brain trauma in sport Videographic on brain trauma and concussion. France's sports minister has called on rugby authorites to make the game safer after the death of another young French player injured during a game. Mountain Biking Trails Travel with Miles Rowland from World Nomads as he explores Trinidad & Tobago, navigating the landscape by mountain bike, and discovering the tropical nature and wildlife of the Caribbean. Amazing tricks on old style bike WS Penny Farthing bicycle stunt. Prominent Saudi activist quits social media Prominent Saudi activist Manal al Sharif has quit Twitter and Facebook, saying the social media networks have become tools for "oppressive governments" to silence human rights campaigners. #Manal_alsharif #Twitter #SaudiArabia Always look left! A bike rider pulls out in front of a car which crashes into him. Bicycle comeback in Beijing? Beijing was once filled with bicycles. But as prosperity grew, those who could swapped their bikes for automobiles. Now bike-share systems have hit the scene. Will two-wheeled transportation soon rule the roads in China's capital once again? Turning 107 in style - celebrating with a cycle ride What better way to spend your 107th birthday than with a bike ride? Senior cyclist Robert Marchand blew out his birthday candles after cycling around 15km on a green track in Ardèche, in the south west of France, surrounded by supporters. Although... Bike rider epic fail! A cyclist misjudges a large puddle and goes headfirst over the handlebars. Social media sites could face ban over harmful images, says Matt Hancocl Health Secretary Matt Hancock tells Andrew Marr he has written to a number of internet giants following the death of 14-year-old Molly Russell, telling them they have a duty to act.

He spoke after Molly's family blamed several social media platfo... Sam Allardyce hits out at the media's use of social media Everton manager Sam Allardyce hits out at the media's use of sites such as Facebook and Twitter. Katy Perry: I'm a victim of social media Katy Perry says she is a "victim" of social media and has urged people to find a "balance" when it comes to using sites like Instagram, Facebook and Twitter. Rugby player jailed over high-speed police chase A rugby player who fought off police officers for nearly an hour despite being Tasered six times has been jailed for 23 months.
Former Rugby League star Scott Moore, was repeatedly hit with the 50,000 volt stun gun. Meghan Markle closes social media accounts Meghan Markle has de-activated her Facebook, Twitter and Instagram accounts ahead of her wedding to Prince Harry, 33, on May 19.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.