Kamva Somdyala One of the posters dotted around Bo Kaap (Jenni Evans, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Three men and one woman have been arrested as a group of protesting Bo-Kaap residents, many of them elderly, attempted to block a developer's crane from entering the area and later clashed with police.WATCH Bo-Kaap residents were visibly distressed outside the Western Cape High Court on Monday when proceedings between them and construction company Blok were delayed. The delay came about after Blok manged to identify nine members of the community, who were initially joined as parties to the proceedings, but who had not been named. The details of the nine members have now emerged. "The so-called Bo-Kaap 9 has the right to oppose [the interdict], but they haven't had an opportunity to do so, which is one of the reasons why today's hearing was set aside," Bo-Kaap resident, Jacky Poking, explained. The wheels of justice In granting a postponement to April 24 for a directions hearing, Judge Patric Gamble had parting words for members of the Bo-Kaap: "The wheels of justice turn, but they turn slowly." "For now, all procedural matters need to be dealt with." In Blok's main application, it is seeking an interdict to stop residents from interrupting construction. Following protests in May last year, Blok obtained the interdict against the Bo-Kaap Neighbourhood Watch and the community – as well as all other persons. The interdict prohibited residents from obstructing the route or interfering with the transportation of a mobile crane to and from a construction site at 40 Lion Street. The matter is set down for June 10. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Dramatic scenes as Bo-Kaap residents clash with police Three men and one woman have been arrested as a group of protesting Bo-Kaap residents, many of them elderly, attempted to block a developer's crane from entering the area and later clashed with police. WATCH: Bakkie careens down Bo-Kaap hill, narrowly misses woman A woman narrowly escaped injury as a bakkie came careening down a hill in the Bo-Kaap. Video footage of the incident surfaced online recently.

According to ER24, the incident happened on Tuesday, October 16. WATCH | Oasis in Ashes: The day a fire swallowed a town On 30 December 2018 a devastating fire gutted the historical mission station of Wupperthal, destroying scores of properties and robbing the residents of their homes, livelihoods and heritage. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. WATCH | #CuteOverload: Catching up with 'surprise' Cape Town quadruplets The chances are smaller than one in half a million - but first-time mother Inga Mafenuka gave birth to quadruplets in Cape Town in July. We caught up with the family six months own the line. Watch. WATCH Hundreds of flamingo chicks admitted to SANCCOB for life-saving rehabilitation Over 2 000 abandoned and distressed flamingo chicks were jetted all over South Africa this week as part of a series of mercy flights from Kimberley after their habitat came under threat due to water problems. WATCH: Political party 'slaughters' watermelon on Cape beach in video stunt A small political party has staged a mock sacrifice of a watermelon on a Cape Town beach in response to the slaughter of a sheep in December. VIDEO: New footage shows devastation after Cape Town N1 high speed crash New footage of the crashed BMW on the N1 in Cape Town has emerged on social media, this time showing the aftermath of the incident. WATCH: Protesters reclaim Clifton beach Lobby group Black People's National Crisis Committee arranged a protest at Clifton Fourth Beach on Friday evening following reports that private security company ecurity company PPA Security allegedly closed down the beach at sunset last Sunday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.