Jan Gerber 'It's time for a new political order' - De Lille announces new political party Former Cape Town mayor and DA member Patricia de Lille says she is ready to serve her country under a new political movement. Good leader Patrica de Lille launches her party's manifesto in Cape Town. (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories "Let us make sure that the Western Cape is not for sale to the highest bidder, as it is now." These were the words of Patricia de Lille as she concluded her speech, while the opening chords of Tina Turner's "Simply the Best" sounded out through the muggy hall of Hoofweg Primary School in Wesbank, a grim, impoverished neighbourhood in Cape Town's Northern Suburbs. De Lille was launching her campaign on Saturday to become the premier of the Western Cape under the banner of Good – the party she founded after leaving the DA and giving up the mayoral chain of Cape Town in October last year. Vote ?@ForGoodZA? 8th May 2019 to #FIXSA pic.twitter.com/mJW43M26Dl In her public appearances since Good's inception in December last year, she hasn't said much about the strife that led to her departure from the DA. This changed on Saturday, as De Lille took aim at the party not only governing the City of Cape Town, but also the Western Cape. After speaking about Good in general, De Lille explained, again, why she left the DA. .@PatriciaDeLille reminds all South Africans that our democracy is grounded in a good Constitution #CampaignTrail2019 @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/Db2GnUo9lo She said she was the face of the DA's election campaign in the municipal election of 2016, and on the back of "our record of delivery" in to the previous term, the DA won the metro with a two-thirds majority. "I vowed to focus on addressing the apartheid spatial plan of our city which persists and which pushes poor, mostly black and coloured families, to continued exclusion," she said. "It was at this point that a cabal within the DA, clearly opposed to fixing the apartheid spatial plan, turned against me." "For two years I endured a vile and relentless dirty-tricks campaign to get rid of me as mayor of Cape Town and to damage my reputation." "I have spent my entire life fighting for a society that is just, fair and caring and will not rest until this is achieved." Dirty tricks According to De Lille, the DA borrowed from apartheid-era tactics in their dirty tricks campaign – sham investigations with predetermined outcomes, false criminal charges and forged documents. "I was there when the Constitution was written," she said. "So I know my rights." She said she always believed that even if the executive branch of state is flawed, there is hope so long as the judiciary remains upright. So, she turned to the courts. "My faith in the courts was not misplaced. The Western Cape High Court ruled in my favour three out of three times." She said in the coming weeks summonses will be served on more DA members. "I'm not done with them yet!" Victim De Lille said while she was fighting for the poor, others in the DA – she dubbed them the "laptop boys" were fighting for the privileged. "I'm a proud victim of this battle. My exit was inevitable." "I left the bad for the Good!" she said to rousing applause. She said the Western Cape's reputation for being racist is due to the DA and she knows the good people of the province aren't racist. "We must make sure we build one Western Cape for all the people of the Western Cape," she said. The DA's campaign slogan is "One South Africa for all". “We are ready for 2019,” sings the GOOD people. If the tune sounds familiar, it is because you heard it in 2017, when the line was “We are ready for Ramaphosa”. #CampaignTrail2019 ?@TeamNews24? pic.twitter.com/o5rflUoi0g While speaking about corruption – Good is against it – someone in the audience blurted out: "Bosasa!" De Lille, with a smile, said: "They give the poor people Sassa cards, and they take Bosasa cards for themselves!" Much laughter ensued. She stated the skeleton of Good's policy positions, which is based on spatial justice, economic justice, social justice and environmental justice. "We all know that climate change is a reality," she said. Thank you Salome for the great entertainment at the GOOD Western Cape Premier Launch. #FIXSA ?@ForGoodZA? pic.twitter.com/IghDIwKkSf She also said public land must be released for public housing. A day before, Western Cape premier Helen Zille challenged President Cyril Ramaphosa to release state owned land in the province to make it available for public housing in her final State of the Province Address. De Lille said people living in informal settlements should get serviced plots and title deeds. She said in the Western Cape people with deep pockets rule the political roost, as they keep parties in power. She said a vote for Good will change that. The event started around 10:00 with, as these things often do, people lining up to receive their obligatory t-shirt in party colours, in this case, orange. The GOOD people are gathered in Wesbank for ?@PatriciaDeLille?’s launch of her campaign for premier of the Western Cape ?@TeamNews24? pic.twitter.com/JCwnZ4Scd1 They then went into the school's hall, which eventually held an audience of about 500 people, where two MC's were yelling encouragement over the sound system. Some songs were sung. "On your marks, get set, we are ready for 2019!" they sang, on a tune that was often heard during the latter part of 2017. Then the song's then lyrics was either "We are ready for Nkosazana!" or "We are ready for Ramaphosa. Later on Saturday morning the lyric was changed to: "We are ready for Patri-sheee-aaaah!" “We are ready for 2019,” sings the GOOD people. If the tune sounds familiar, it is because you heard it in 2017, when the line was “We are ready for Ramaphosa”. #CampaignTrail2019 ?@TeamNews24? pic.twitter.com/o5rflUoi0g Four young people were called in turn to the stage to say why they support Good and sing De Lille's praises. From the back of the hall De Lille, wearing an orange golf shirt, walked to the stage, followed by children in their black school tracksuits marching in formation to the beat of a bass and a snare drum, played by two of their classmates. There was a musical item, by a singer who introduced herself as Salome from Mitchells Plain. Good national chairperson Nthabiseng Lephoko introduced De Lille. After the speech, Salome led the rendition of "Simply the Best", with De Lille and others swaying on stage. As the audience started to depart, they were reminded to pick up their food vouchers. “Let us make sure that the Western Cape is not for sale to the highest bidder as it is now,” @PatriciaDeLille concluded her stump speech as the opening chords of Tina Turner’s Simply the Best starts to sound. #CampaignTrail2019 @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/0SAPajhC1O KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   Johannesburg's grandest old colonial club seeks new image With its imposing columned facade, hunting trophies and oil portraits, the Rand Club in Johannesburg's city centre is a relic of South Africa's colonial and apartheid past. But Alicia Thompson, a black woman born in Johannesburg, is seeking to rep... Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. Attackers slit throats at S. African mosque Three assailants attacked worshipers at a mosque in Durban, South Africa, killing the imam by slitting his throat, then setting fire to the building. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. South Africa's white farmers seek role in land reform as economic pressure grows White South African farmers are seeking a role in land reform as the ruling ANC moves to change the constitution to allow for the expropriation of white-owned land to rectify racial ownership disparities. A holidaymaker's guide to SA's Sunshine Coast Spring has sprung and it's time to chase the sun in South Africa, and where better than to chase it all the way to its homeland on the Eastern Cape shores of the Sunshine Coast. Eleven taxi drivers shot dead in South Africa Gunmen shot dead 11 taxi drivers returning to Johannesburg from the funeral of a colleague in Kwa-Zulu Natal. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH: Cope's Lekota, Steve Hofmeyr unite against 'fascist formation' BLF Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota has labelled the BLF a fascist formation, insisting that its leader, Andile Mngxitama, be imprisoned and rehabilitated for his calls at the weekend for the killing of white people in South Africa. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH: Mnangagwa and and his gangster must leave Zimbabwe alone - Zimbabweans Protesters marched to the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria on Wednesday in solidarity with their families who've been affected by the total shutdown in Zimbabwe WATCH: Mnangagwa and and his gangster must leave Zimbabwe alone - Zimbabweans A number of protesters marched to the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria on Wednesday in solidarity with their families who've been affected by the total shutdown in Zimbabwe. WATCH LIVE: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn back on the stand WARNING: This testimony may contain sensitive content. Viewer discretion is advised.

Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn is back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday. AB expects high quality cricket in Mzansi Super League Tshwane Spartans captain AB de Villiers admits that he is proud of South Africa hosting its own T20 tournament and expects an entertaining Mzansi Super League. South Africa's Ramaphosa lands in Buenos Aires ahead of G20 South African President Cyril Ramaphosa greets Argentina's Foreign Minister Jorge Faurie at his arrival in Buenos Aires ahead of the G20 Summit. New heritage centre at !Khwa Ttu reclaims the San's voice On the West Coast in South Africa, !Khwa Ttu launched their new San Heritage Centre that lets these indigenous people tell their own story. Africa's first "ATM pharmacy" Africa's first "ATM pharmacy" has just opened, north of South Africa's main city, Johannesburg. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. Chicago ex-cop guilty of murdering black teenager A white former police officer was found guilty of murder for firing the 16 shots that killed 17-year-old Laquan McDonald in Chicago in 2014. WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. Kwesta, Cassper Nyovest and Nasty C among this celeb barber's famous clientele Celebrity barber Sheldon Tatchell is well-known for cutting the hair of Johannesburg's elite and now The Legends Barbershop will be setting up shop in Cape Town. 'Our relationship went beyond politics' - Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest Mandela memories Zulu Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi shares his fondest memories of Nelson Mandela, on the fifth anniversary of Nelson Mandela's death. Three killed as trains collide in South Africa Authorities in South Africa say a train collision in Pretoria has killed three people and injured more than 200. The cause of the crash is under investigation. Vedanta will invest Rs 8500 Cr more in South Africa Sources tell BTVI that London-based Vedanta will invest Rs 8500 crore more in South Africa. BTVI has also learnt that Vedanta chairman Anil Agarwal, who was part of the South African President Cyril Ramaphosa’s delegation for India’s Republic Day ... WATCH: 'Small meteor' lights up Cape night sky Social media was ablaze with talk about a meteor that lit up the Western Cape sky in loud, fiery fashion on Wednesday. 
One lucky farmer managed to capture the meteor on CCTV camera. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. Miley Cyrus is in Cape Town, South Africa Miley Cyrus was spotted shopping in Cape Town, South Africa. WATCH:  Fire rages out of control near Hermanus Firefighters from the Overstrand Municipality have spent the last 24 hours fighting an out of control fire about 10km from Hermanus in the Western Cape. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. WATCH: Political party 'slaughters' watermelon on Cape beach in video stunt A small political party has staged a mock sacrifice of a watermelon on a Cape Town beach in response to the slaughter of a sheep in December. Newborn baby girl pulled out of South African storm drain Emergency services were called after cries were heard coming from the drain in Newlands East, near Durban in South Africa. Following a three-hour rescue operation, police are now investigating how the baby got there in the first place. WATCH: Rapturous applause from public gallery as Hannah Cornelius' murderers receive life sentences The three men involved in the kidnapping, rape and murder of Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius and the brutal attack on her friend Cheslin Marsh have received life sentences. Boulders Beach - Home of the African Penguin It is one of the world's most Instagrammed beaches. It is nature at its most pristine. And you can even swim with penguins. South Africans confront a gloomy economic outlook South Africa's economy has entered recession for the first time since 2009, dealing a blow to President Cyril Ramaphosa's economic reform agenda. WATCH Hundreds of flamingo chicks admitted to SANCCOB for life-saving rehabilitation Over 2 000 abandoned and distressed flamingo chicks were jetted all over South Africa this week as part of a series of mercy flights from Kimberley after their habitat came under threat due to water problems. WATCH: Journalists manhandled and barred from Durban City Hall The South African National Editors' Forum (SANEF) on Tuesday released a statement condemning the "unconstitutional and chilling action" taken against journalists at the Durban City Hall. WATCH: Buses burned, windows shattered in CPUT violence Vandals destroyed two buses and damaged buildings at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology's Bellville campus in the early hours of Wednesday morning. How to speak 'Black Panther' The official language of Wakanda is isiXhosa - also spoken in parts of South Africa Top district, top three matric learners all from Western Cape Despite being pipped by the Free State as the province with the highest matric pass rate, the Western Cape had other impressive and improved figures. Watch. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. WATCH: Protesters to Ramaphosa: Give us the money you give to the buffalo The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) and other trade unions took to the streets in Cape Town on Thursday to protest against police brutality and low wages. WATCH: Our approach to land expropriation will be to enhance property rights - Cyril Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed the 25th annual Investing in Africa Mining Indaba at the Cape Town International Convention Centre on Tuesday. Couples marry on Robben Island in tribute to Mandela On Valentine's Day, couples tie the knot on Robben Island in South Africa to pay tribute to Nelson Mandela who spent time in prison on the island during Apartheid. FLAMINGO CHICKS rescued from perilously low water levels in South Africa Some 300 Lesser flamingo baby chicks have been rescued and taken into the care of the SANCCOB conservation centre in Cape Town.  According to a veterinarian in charge of feeding the baby flamingos, David Roberts, the centre received information "t... WATCH: Three accused of murdering Mihalik appear in court The three men accused of Pete Mihalik's murder - Vuyile Maliti, Sinozokohle Biyela and Nkosinathi Khumalo - appear in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Friday 15 February 2019. Singing and dancing as Cyril Ramaphosa elected as South Africa's new president Cyril Ramaphosa has been elected as South Africa's new president and celebrations followed the announcement in the South African Parliament. WATCH: Cellphone footage shows violent mob justice on Cape Town promenade On Sunday, the Eden on the bay promenade in Big bay, seemed no different than it usually does on a sunny weekend for the most part of the day. Then the end of the day saw the stretch of grass on the promenade turn into a small war zone. Man targeted in racist rant on Cape Town, South Africa, bus opens criminal case A man has opened a case of crimen injuria after becoming the target of a racist rant on a bus to central Cape Town on Monday morning. S.Africa's EFF party supporters arrive ahead of Manifesto launch Supporters of South Africa's far-left Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) arrive at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve, Pretoria, ahead of the party's manifesto launch.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.