Ntwaagae Seleka GOOD leader Patricia de Lille announces her party's interim leadership at the Royal Cape Yacht Club on Sunday. (Jan Gerber/News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Leader of newly-formed political party, Good, Patricia de Lille has announced Nhlanhla Mtshali as the party's Gauteng premier candidate ahead of the 2019 general elections. De Lille was addressing party members during the provincial campaign launch at Thaba Jabula secondary school in Soweto on Sunday. She said Mtshali was the youngest premier candidate and will amplify the youth voice. De Lille promised that Good wants to fix South Africa, province by province, City by City. "Thank you Gauteng for you hospitality and love. Northern Cape, we are coming for you," she said. "One in five in Gauteng households live in informal homes. Government and state-owned enterprises inherited thousands of properties from apartheid government. A Good government will use our public land for public Good, by providing titles to residents in informal settlements on public land," said de Lille. Our GOOD Gauteng Premier Candidate Nhlanhla Mtshali! pic.twitter.com/xiGeNPqDvB  GOOD wants to fix South Africa, City by City, Province by Province. Thank you Gauteng for you hospitality and love. Northern Cape, we are coming for you. #FIXSA pic.twitter.com/Y34T5r74C2  GOOD Gauteng at the start of our Gauteng Provincial and Premier campaign launch at Thaba Jabula secondary school in Soweto! #FIXSA pic.twitter.com/qEWC7wk4CV  GOOD supporters at our Gauteng province and premier launch today. They are ready for GOOD. #FIXSA pic.twitter.com/K83UPzl0m4  NW Premier Candidate Viv Law: “There is more work to do than we can imagine. The North West province with its immense potential, deserves it.” pic.twitter.com/oMCJjP9d6V  READ: Good names North West premier candidate On Saturday, the party also nominated Vivien Law, as the party's premier candidate for the North West province. Law said the campaign was built on the belief in the power of "Good People, Good Deeds and Good Governance". "To be good is to think good, speak good and act from a place of goodness. For the North West province, the Good movement is more than just another political party, it is a serious call to action," she said. Law said the party was born to identify and acknowledge people's difficulties and challenges and also to "find solutions and fix it". "No doubt, the North West and our country is in crisis. We have been in crisis for a very long time," said referring to the province being placed under administration last year. "We experience this crisis in our own homes day after day. Let us be under no illusion. There is more work to do than we can imagine."   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.