Kamva Somdyala iStock Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cape Town Metro Police have arrested two people believed to be involved in a gang that attempted to rob two motorists who were involved in a collision caused by stone throwing at the weekend. The incident happened on the R300, between the N2 and Hindle Road. Two officers were dispatched to the scene and found a group of about 10 people robbing the motorists. Two suspects, aged between 18 and 38, were arrested. Metro police recovered a cellphone belonging to one of the motorists. The other suspects fled, according to mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith. WATCH: High speed N1 Cape Town crash leaves BMW driver critical Video of a BMW crashing into a barrier on the N1 in Cape Town and spinning out of control has gone viral online. Smith said that one of the motorists had indicated that he had swerved to avoid stones being thrown, and had then collided with another vehicle. The second driver was transported to hospital for treatment. "This callous attack is symptomatic of an ongoing challenge on our roads. Fortunately, our officers were able to respond quickly and come to the aid of the motorists involved. "I hope that the suspects in this case are prosecuted to the full extent of the law, so that we can send a strong message that this type of criminality will not be tolerated," said Smith. Charges The two suspects will face charges of malicious damage to property, robbery and possession of stolen property. Earlier this month, News24 reported that two metro officers had been shot by a gunman who had also opened fire on the driver of a vehicle that had broken down on the N2 near Borcherds Quarry. The N2 is one of the city's most dangerous roads. Numerous warnings have been issued by the City of Cape Town, urging motorists not to stop there unless in an emergency or a breakdown situation. Smith called on the media and the public to continue to put pressure on national authorities to ensure safety on the N2. He said proper fencing was needed along the N2 and R300. "Enforcement alone will not deal with the problem. Engineering solutions are desperately required to prevent people from accessing the road reserve," he added. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: A poor man can come to this sale... and buy a champion Former golfer and stud farm owner Gary Player says race horse ownership is more accessible than many may realise. We caught up with the legendary sportsman at the 2019 Cape Premier Yearling Sale in Cape Town. Watch. Charged and Disbarred - Part 6 Sylvia Stolz is a German lawyer convicted of denying the Holocaust. WATCH: 'A fairy-tale day' as homeless couple exchanges wedding vows A dream came true for Llewellyn Jenniker and Cecilia Jenniker on Tuesday when the homeless couple, who've been living together on the streets for decades, finally tied the knot. Reporter - Police Violence in the Slums of Nairobi Nineteen-year-old Brian was shot dead in broad daylight in the Kayole slum in Kenya. The Kenyan police are killing suspected criminals in an underground war against crimes - as many as 3,000 in the last year. The Street Art Galleries of Cape Town Rather than an act of vandalism, many see graffiti art as a form of visual poetry engaging with the people of the city. This is your guide to exploring the open-air galleries of the Mother City in South Africa. WATCH: Three accused of murdering Mihalik appear in court The three men accused of Pete Mihalik's murder - Vuyile Maliti, Sinozokohle Biyela and Nkosinathi Khumalo - appear in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Friday 15 February 2019. WATCH: Woman robbed at gunpoint outside Midrand shopping centre Police are investigating a case of armed robbery after a woman was robbed at gunpoint in the parking lot of the Crowthorne shopping centre last week Wednesday. WATCH: The Sasol Solar Challenge Sasol Solar Challenge 2018 took place from the 22nd to the 30th of September. Raw Politics: Will EU leaders allow ISIS fighters to return? Donald Trump is demanding European leaders take back and prosecute over 800 jihadists captured in Syria. FLAMINGO CHICKS rescued from perilously low water levels in South Africa Some 300 Lesser flamingo baby chicks have been rescued and taken into the care of the SANCCOB conservation centre in Cape Town.  According to a veterinarian in charge of feeding the baby flamingos, David Roberts, the centre received information "t... WATCH: Cellphone footage shows violent mob justice on Cape Town promenade On Sunday, the Eden on the bay promenade in Big bay, seemed no different than it usually does on a sunny weekend for the most part of the day. Then the end of the day saw the stretch of grass on the promenade turn into a small war zone. WATCH: Forensic teams comb crime scene after Mihalik shooting A police officer calls for assistance moments after criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik was shot dead in his car in Green Point, Cape Town. WATCH: Cape Town matrics beam after receiving IEB marks The young men and women exiting Reddam House Atlantic Seaboard in Cape Town on Thursday couldn't stop smiling when they saw that their hard work had paid off for the IEB national senior certificate exams. VIDEO: New footage shows devastation after Cape Town N1 high speed crash New footage of the crashed BMW on the N1 in Cape Town has emerged on social media, this time showing the aftermath of the incident. Arkansas white supremacists accused of brutality Federal prosecutors are accusing a white supremacist gang in Arkansas of silencing witnesses to its meth-trafficking with brutal tactics, including permanently disfiguring one person's face. Ed Sheeran has a special message for his Cape Town fans Ed Sheeran has announced a second and final show at Cape Town Stadium on Thursday, 28 March 2019. The Wonder of Rwanda Kigali is joining the ranks of start-up cities in Africa alongside Lagos, Nairobi and Cape Town. A new start-up center has just opened there. WATCH: Robbers make off with woman's phone, bag as she walks in Muizenberg SAPS confirmed that a case of robbery was reported at Muizenberg police station on Tuesday 19 February 2019. The incident allegedly occurred on 9 February at approximately 07:40. WATCH: 'Small meteor' lights up Cape night sky Social media was ablaze with talk about a meteor that lit up the Western Cape sky in loud, fiery fashion on Wednesday. 
One lucky farmer managed to capture the meteor on CCTV camera. WATCH: Oh beer! Crates of alcohol crash out of beer truck in Cape Town It was unhappy hour for a truck driver who lost a huge load of beer after attempting to turn his vehicle in South Africa on Friday. WATCH: Closing arguments in Rohde trial - was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband Jason violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Crowd brutally attacks man armed with paintball gun On Saturday a crowd attacked a man in Seapoint in Cape Town. Victoria Police appeal for information in Melton armed robbery Detective Inspector Dean Thomas of the Armed Crime Squad appeals for help in apprehending a man how robbed a gaming venue in Melton. Clumsy burglars steal from Texas liquor store Three clumsy burglars are wanted in the Houston area after surveillance video captured the men breaking into a Cypress liquor store and stealing several bottles of alcohol before leaving in a hurry - tripping and shattering glass in the process. A brief, incomplete history of strange Canadian industrial thefts Police are baffled after Newfoundland thieves made off with about 30,000 litres of unbottled iceberg water worth as much as $12,000. The unusual bounty, which was to be used to make vodka, was being stored in a warehouse in Port Union, N.L. Here i... San Francisco uses tech to clear pot convictions San Francisco has erased or reduced thousands of marijuana-related convictions using a technological approach that the district attorney says prosecutors nationwide should adopt to address growing a backlog of criminal cases. Jussie Smollett charged with faking racist attack Actor Jussie Smollett is charged with lying to police after claiming he was attacked and beaten by two masked men. Chicago police are now seeking his arrest. Police: Patriots owner solicited prostitute Police: Patriots owner solicited prostitute Cardi B arrives at court over assault charges Cardi B arrives at court over assault charges Arizona man hit with Taser 11 times, lawsuit filed An Arizona man is suing a suburban Phoenix police department for excessive force after he claims officers used a Taser on him 11 times, including purposefully on his testicles. The Glendale Police Department denies most of the claims. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. WATCH: MyCiTi employees' 'wildcat' strike continued on Tuesday A "wildcat" strike by MyCiTi employees appeared to enter its second day on Tuesday as the bus service announced disruptions on several routes around Cape Town. Why Cape Town is turning off its taps South Africa's second largest city is in the midst of a severe drought. WATCH: Cape Town's karate kid raises tournament money through hard work and community support A pint-sized karate kid from Lansdowne in Cape Town has unleashed his inner entrepreneur, raising money to take part in a national karate tournament by selling atchar, dried fruit and sauces at a stall in Rylands. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. VIDEO: 'We pay R2 to use mall toilets' – Cape Town informal settlement residents demand basic servic Five Cape Town communities joined with social justice movements to march to the Cape Town Civic Centre on Thursday. 

The protesters expressed exasperation over the lack of basic services in informal settlements in the city. WATCH: Zille breaks ground on R3bn mixed-income residential project Western Cape Premier Helen Zille said the "pioneering" housing project expected at the site of the derelict old Conradie Hospital in Cape Town could "make or break" the current housing system. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. Jussie Smollett faces felony charge for filing false police report "Empire" series actor Jussie Smollett has been arrested and is facing a felony charge for filing a false police report. Chicago's police superintendent says Smollett staged a racist and homophobic attack because he was unhappy about his salary and... WATCH: Bakkie goes swimming while trying to pull boat out of the water in Cape Town A man who was pulling a boat out of the water at the Oceana Power Boat Club in Granger Bay, Cape Town, got more than he bargained for at the weekend when his vehicle also had to be towed out of the water. WATCH: Fire engulfs Lion's Head Families living in Sea Point, Cape Town evacuated their homes on Sunday evening as the flames that engulfed the lower slopes of Lion's Head near Quarry Hill were coming down on them. Going drag racing with a politician Watch as City of Cape Town's mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith answers questions while sitting passenger at a legal racing event. It's time to involve the entire security cluster - Blade Nzimande after latest Cape Town train fire Firefighters have arrived at Cape Town train station to battle yet another train-related blaze after thick, black smoke permeated the air above the station on Tuesday. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.