Jan Gerber UDM leader Bantu Holomisa. (Cornel van Heerden, Gallo Images, Beeld, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories President Cyril Ramaphosa's assertion that the Zuma administration amounted to nine wasted years, clearly didn't absolve him in the eyes of opposition leaders. Speaking at a luncheon organised by the Cape Town Press Club at the exclusive Kelvin Grove Club in leafy Newlands, UDM leader Bantu Holomisa was quick to point out that Ramaphosa was part of the administration during the so-called "wasted nine years". "The reality is that South Africa is swamped in corruption," Holomisa said. "We are a nation of commissions of inquiry." He said this is the case because corruption, instead of service delivery, was the business of the government. He said there were at least three ongoing judicial inquiries that showed how the government collapsed under brazen corruption. Holomisa said this was the result of the policy of the governing party – which was how he often referred to the ANC – of cadre deployment. "The president and his Minister of Finance insult the nation and blame Zuma, without acknowledging that they were leaders in their party," Holomisa said. Of late, Ramaphosa has, in several speeches, referred to the period from 2008 to 2018 as a lost decade. At Davos at the end of January, he edited the period down to nine years, which coincided with the period Zuma was in office. Last week Finance Minister Tito Mboweni said South Africa was turning over a new leaf after "nine wasted years" under former president Jacob Zuma - comments which landed him in hot water at Luthuli House. On Monday, the IFP issued a scathing open letter criticising Ramaphosa for being "in the belly of the beast which was the Zuma administration". Zuma responded last week on Twitter, claiming that his nine years in office weren't wasted. Nine wasted years?Read: https://t.co/xnfrkXb9ls  Holomisa said the opposition's initiatives to remove Zuma were "fiercely opposed" by the ANC. "Now, today, they are telling us there is a new dawn, but they were part of that (the Zuma administration)," he said. "We have not forgotten that more than 80% of the current ANC leadership was in the [previous] NEC." He said he "began to panic" last year in Parliament when he heard that Ramaphosa benefited from a "Bosasa golden handshake". He said there was too much spin-doctoring on the matter and that Ramaphosa should explain the matter. UDM leader ?@BantuHolomisa? to address ?@capepressclub? ahead of #SONA2019 ?@TeamNews24? pic.twitter.com/w795cXroYE  Asked what he expected of Thursday's State of the Nation Address, Holomisa said: "Ah, not much." He expects that it will be a regurgitation of the ANC's January 8 statement and that Ramaphosa won't act against those implicated. In a very unusual step for a South African politician, Holomisa shone a light on the shady world of party funding when he revealed that the UDM received a donation of R250 000 from MTN. He said they were still waiting on other companies. "But we don't stress in the UDM," he said. He said they would not beg for money. "You can give us money if you want… but we're not going to change what we stand for." WATCH: Ramaphosa calls on private sector to assist with the fight against corruption Corruption has become a big issue that has to be addressed by the whole nation, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Thursday. PODCAST: Zuma's nine lost years? Ramaphosa shouldn't forget — he was there AUDIO: 2019 is off to a flying start, from Bosasa and the endless inquiries to Solly Msimanga stepping down as Tshwane mayor and electioneering getting into full swing.

This week on POLOTIKI, we discuss former president Jacob Zuma's legacy. WATCH: Ramaphosa delivers Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture President Cyril Ramaphosa is delivering the 8th Desmond Tutu International Peace Lecture.

The focus of the address is restorative justice in South Africa, 20 years after the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. WATCH: Bosasa, Watson are to Ramaphosa what Guptas were to Zuma - Maimane DA leader Mmusi Maimane has compared the R500 000 donation by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson to Cyril Ramaphosa's ANC presidential campaign to corruption perpetrated by the Gupta family. The Zuma presidency: Scandals and successes Jacob Zuma has faced some controversies during his time as ANC leader. South Africa's Zuma says he will resign 'with immediate effect' South Africa's President Jacob Zuma has said he will resign "with immediate effect".

Mr Zuma made the announcement late on Wednesday in a televised address to the nation. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. S Africa 'captured by corrupt elements' South Africa's President Zuma feels "anxious" about his future, says ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa. 'I never thought we would choose corruption' Makhosi Khoza received death threats after branding President Jacob Zuma "a disgrace". WATCH: 'It's me, former president Jacob Zuma' - Zuma joins social media Former president Jacob Zuma says he has decided to "move with times" and join various social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. WATCH: Jacob Zuma arrives at court to support son Duduzane Former president Jacob Zuma arrived at the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday show support for his son Duduzane, who has been charged with two counts of culpable homicide.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.