Jenni Evans WATCH: Three accused of murdering Mihalik appear in court The three men accused of Pete Mihalik's murder - Vuyile Maliti, Sinozokohle Biyela and Nkosinathi Khumalo - appear in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Friday 15 February 2019. Pete Mihalik (File, Son) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The three men accused of the murder of well known Cape Town defence lawyer Pete Mihalik will have a long wait in custody after a hiccup over documents delayed their planned bail application on Friday. Vuyile Maliti, 35, Sizwe Sinzokohle Biyela, 26, and Nkosinathi Khumalo, 31, are accused of gunning down Mihalik on October 30, 2018, while he was doing the morning school run. Security was tight, with at least five heavily armed and bulletproof-vested Anti-Gang Unit members lining the walls of the court. Their lawyers wanted paperwork such as a warning statement, and also wanted a video the prosecution has in its possession. READ: Men accused of murder of advocate Pete Mihalik back in court for bail application Magistrate Greg Jacobs listened as prosecutor Helene Booysen said she did not have to hand over the video, but would provide a copy of the warning statements. However, she could not immediately locate a photocopying machine. The three were remanded until April 2 and were led back down into their cells to be taken to separate prisons. "The accused will remain in custody as before," said Jacobs. During the hearing, a number of prominent criminal defence lawyers were present to observe the case.  WATCH: Mihalik was the first member of the Cape Bar Council to be assassinated - Ismail Jamie SC Pete Mihalik was the first member of the Cape Bar to be assassinated, said bar chairperson Ismail Jamie, SC, after a private memorial service for the advocate in Cape Town on Monday. WATCH: Two 'high-ranking gangsters' among mourners at Pete Mihalik's funeral The funeral of slain Cape Town lawyer Pete Mihalik was held at the St Mary's Cathedral on Saturday. WATCH: Heavy police escort for Mihalik accused Three people appeared in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Thursday on charges for the murder of top advocate Pete Mihalik. WATCH: 'It looked like a toy gun, he was so calm about it' - Eyewitness describes Mihalik murder WATCH: 'It looked like a toy gun, he was so calm about it' - Eyewitness describes Mihalik murder WATCH: Forensic teams comb crime scene after Mihalik shooting A police officer calls for assistance moments after criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik was shot dead in his car in Green Point, Cape Town. WATCH: Criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik shot dead outside Green Point school Reports have emerged that lawyer Pete Mihalik has been murdered in a Cape Town shooting.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.