Riaan Grobler WATCH: Domestic worker hit by car, driver speeds off A video of a woman being hit by a car while crossing the road in Benoni, reportedly on Monday morning, has been going viral on social media.
In the video, the woman is seen crossing the road outside the John Barrable Hall in Northmead, Benoni. The domestic worker who was knocked over in a hit-and-run incident in Benoni on Monday wants "no fuss" and is planning to resume work on Monday. Elizabeth*, who is in her 80s, was on her way to work on Monday morning - where she has worked for the past 25 years - when she was knocked down while crossing a road outside John Barrable Hall in Northmead, Benoni. Video footage of the incident - caught on a CCTV camera of the Benoni Northerns Sports Club - was published by News24 on Thursday. In the video, Elizabeth attempts to walk faster when a dark-coloured hatchback appears to first slow down before hitting her. As she crouches in pain in front of the car, the driver reverses, pauses for a few seconds, and then simply drives away, leaving the injured Elizabeth lying in the road. The video has since gone viral. WATCH: Woman hit by car, driver speeds off Speaking to News24 on Friday, Elizabeth's employer, who does not want to be named, said Elizabeth initially said nothing about the incident and carried on with her work as usual. "Then there was a knock at the door from one of the local security companies who asked whether she was okay since she had been struck down by a car. "I couldn't believe it, so I asked her what had happened. But she kept insisting that she was 'fine' and that she didn't want to 'cause any trouble'," the employer said. Driver had child in the car Elizabeth then said she had been crossing the road as she does every Monday and Thursday when 'the lady' bumped into her and drove off. A child was also in the car, she said. Initially refusing any treatment, Elizabeth was sent home. "I then started making enquiries on the Benoni community group asking if anyone had any information and later that day, someone alerted me to the video. I then realised how hectic it was." Elizabeth was eventually seen by a doctor on Thursday. She was due for a follow-up on Monday. The employer said Elizabeth used a pedestrian crossing but that motorists notoriously don't stop or slow down. She said the family was furious about the incident, and especially with the many instances of victim-shaming that people have posted on social media, blaming Elizabeth for being run down. Family to take it further' "Elizabeth's family has since seen the footage on News24 and they realise how serious this really was, because she really it played down. They are now considering taking it further." Benoni Northerns Sports Club manager Rod Scheepers told News24 on Thursday that the video footage taken by the club's delivery bay CCTV camera was too grainy to identify the vehicle's number plate. But Elizabeth's employer has learnt that the woman who allegedly ran her over used the road regularly when dropping off her child [at school]. The witness could, however, not identify the vehicle and said the woman has not been seen taking that route since the incident on Monday. Elizabeth has since been examined by a doctor and was due for a follow-up on Monday. "Elizabeth says she's fine and she wants to come back to work on Monday. "She has worked for our family since before I was born, for more than 37 years - 25 of those in our Benoni home. She really is like family. She should have retired a long time ago, but she doesn't want to. She also has to support her family." There is little hope of finding the perpetrator, says Elizabeth's employer. Just apologise "I just want to put a human plea out to this woman - we don't want to name and shame you, we don't want to put you behind bars - we just want you to apologise…" On Thursday, Ekurhuleni police spokesperson Chief Superintendent Wilfred Kgasago could not confirm the incident. ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring had no knowledge of emergency services being dispatched to the scene. Neither Elizabeth's employer nor her family has yet laid a formal charge, but her family "wants to take it further". "Elizabeth is a sweet, honest person. She certainly did not deserve it, as some of these comments [on social media] are saying." *Not her real name KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Dashcam captures truck driver's close call A truck driver was left shaken after narrowly missing an oncoming lorry overtaking a tractor on the N7. WATCH: 45 children tumble out of packed Nelson Mandela Bay taxi Nelson Mandela Bay Metro Police arrested a taxi driver who severely overloaded a minibus taxi on Monday, February 18. WATCH: Erratic driver tries to attack motorist A North West motorist was caught on camera recklessly driving on the R24 in Rustenburg with the attempt to threaten another driver. WATCH: Driver catches car thief in the act A motorist managed to stop car thieves seconds before they drove off with his vehicle from a parking lot at a Springs shopping centre. NSW police seek Hawi murder getaway driver Detective Superintendent Deb Wallace from NSW Police speaks to reporters in Sydney, appealing for help in locating the suspected getaway driver involved in the daylight assassination of former bikie boss "Mick" Hawi. Ms Wallace says the suspected getaway driver drove a Mercedes-Benz station wagon, which was later set alight, away from the scene of the killing. "We are hopeful that someone will refresh their memory and we encourage them to come forward to give us the information we need to put this puzzle together,” Ms Wallace says. The man is shown to have a distinctive gait which police believe is a significant identifier. 'Ferrari look ultra-strong' - Mercedes chief Wolff Renault driver Niko Hulkenberg and Mercedes Team Principal Toto Wolff shared their thoughts on day one of pre-season Formula 1 testing in Barcelona, Spain on Monday. As usual, testing will span two weeks at the Circuit de Barcelona-Catalunya in Mo... Edgar Wright keen on Kinks biopic 'Baby Driver' director Edgar Wright has revealed he is very interested in making a biopic that tells the story of British rock band The Kinks and the tempestuous relationship between brothers Ray and Dave Davies. Drink-driver travels wrong way down motorway A drink-driver who travelled the wrong way down the M4 has been jailed Border officer shoots driver at Arizona crossing The mayor of Nogales, Arizona, says a port of entry on the U.S.-Mexico border is temporarily closed after a customs officer shot and killed a southbound driver who refused to stop. Mexican officials reportedly say a passenger was arrested. Uber driver sentenced to life in 6 shooting deaths A Michigan man who fatally shot six strangers in between picking up passengers for Uber was sentenced Tuesday to life in prison with no chance of parole. WATCH: Spinning car that hit pedestrian found Police are investigating a case of carjacking after two women were highjacked in Mitchells Plain on Friday. Court has ‘difficult job’ in Sidhu sentencing: Crown A Crown prosecutor in the case of the truck driver who caused the Humboldt Broncos bus crash says arriving at a sentence will be a tough task. Thomas Healey says there is a lack of precedent for cases like Jaskirat Singh Sidhu’s. Agriculture continues to be the main driver of the rural economy: FM Under PM Kisan Yojana farmers with less than 2-hectare lands will get Rs 6000/yr in the form of direct income, says Finance Minister Piyush Goyal, while presenting the budget. Court has a ‘difficult job’ in Sidhu sentencing: Crown CAPTION:SOUNDBITE: Thomas Healey, Crown prosecutorPLACELINE: Melfort, Sask.CREDIT: The Canadian PressSTORYLINE: The truck driver who caused the deadly Humboldt Broncos bus crash says he takes full responsibility for the collision that killed 16 pe... Families of Humboldt victims seek solace at crash memorial Several families visited the site of last year’s Humboldt Broncos bus crash. The father of a survivor said Wednesday that the sentencing hearing for truck driver Jaskirat Singh Sidhu is putting “tremendous pressure” on the families. Bus crash victim’s father’s ‘biggest hope is to change attitudes’ The father of a Humboldt Broncos bus crash victim says he hopes to see trucking companies held accountable for accidents. Truck driver Jaskirat Singh Sidhu is being sentenced for causing a collision in April that killed 16 people. Bozoma Saint John Has a Lot To Do Uber's Bozoma Saint John has a chat with Megan Rose Dickey about tackling the company's recent brand difficulties, user and driver perceptions of the company, and the work remaining. Billet to Humboldt bus crash victims says ‘it’s hard to forgive’ Some family and friends of Humboldt Broncos bus crash victims say they hope to find forgiveness, as they attend the sentencing hearing for truck driver Jaskirat Singh Sidhu, who has pleaded guilty to 29 counts of dangerous driving. Police dashcam captures driver throwing drugs from car window Kierell Woollery, 20, who drove away from police at high speeds on the M6 and ditched drugs out the car window, has been jailed for six-and-a-half years. 

The motorway was closed between junctions 14 and 15 near Stone as the car reached speeds of... Police: 3 dead in Honolulu traffic crash Honolulu, Hawaii police say three people died on Monday when a suspected drunk driver crashed into pedestrians in an intersection. Lt. James Slayter tells the Star Advertiser that five people were injured. Father of Humboldt bus crash victim on delivering impact statement Families of the victims in the Humboldt Broncos bus crash made impact statements Monday at a sentencing hearing for the truck driver who has pleaded guilty. The father of one victim says sharing his statement was a “powerful moment.” Truck driver involved in Humboldt crash arrives in court The truck driver involved in the deadly Humboldt Broncos bus crash arrived in court for his sentencing hearing on Monday. Jaskirat Sidhu has pleaded guilty to 29 counts of dangerous driving. Adam Driver calls Oscar nomination 'surreal' Adam Driver says that being nominated for an Academy Award for "BlacKkKlansman' in the company of director Spike Lee and his collaborators is "surreal." WATCH: Thieves ambush and rob sleeping truck driver A video of a truck driver valiantly fighting off a suspected robber who broke into his truck while he was sleeping inside has surfaced on social media. Taco Bell eyes Asia to drive overseas expansion Taco Bell plans to double its international footprint with Asian markets as the key driver, a senior executive told Reuters. Sala's father 'there are no words' to describe his loss The father of Emiliano Sala admitted he is "beginning to think the worst," after a small plane carrying the 28-year-old disappeared off the coast of Alderney in the Channel Islands on Monday night. Sala's father, a truck driver, said the news was ... Charlie Martin: Looking to Le Mans Charlie Martin is a transgender racing driver aiming to compete at the Le Mans 24 Hours. WATCH: High speed N1 Cape Town crash leaves BMW driver critical Video of a BMW crashing into a barrier on the N1 in Cape Town and spinning out of control has gone viral online. Prince Philip breathalysed! Prince Philip is said to have been "very shocked and shaken" following a crash near the Sandringham Estate on Thursday (17.01.19), which resulted in him and the other driver being breathalysed, but both tests were negative. Sequent scientific on a tear Manish Gupta, CEO of Sequent Scientific said that API business is a key growth driver and contributes around 28% to the revenue. WATCH: Former Springbok and his partner allegedly steal tee-ed off golfers' clubs A former Springbok and his partner were caught on camera making off with a R7 000 driver at the Stellenbosch Golf Club. WATCH: Morningside driver outsmarts would-be hijackers A Johannesburg motorist escaped an attempted hijacking outside a complex in Morningside. Tata Motors targets CV Revival E-Commerce is the fastest growth driver for Tata Motors Heavy Cargo said Girish Wagh of Tata Motors. Man pulled from burning vehicle after crash Dash-cam footage captures a crash and rescue in Florida.

The crash happened as a Florida Highway Patrol trooper pulled over to help a driver. The rear-facing camera was recording as a car swerved to avoid slowed traffic, hit the guard rail, then ... Police: Public shouldn’t ‘read into’ Ottawa bus driver arrest Ottawa police Chief Charles Bordeleau is urging the public not to jump to conclusions about what caused Friday’s bus crash that killed three people and injured 23 others. Ottawa mayor says three killed in ‘horrific’ bus crash Ottawa Mayor Jim Watson says three people are dead and 23 injured after a double-decker city bus crashed into a transit shelter west of the city’s downtown on Friday. Police say the bus driver was arrested and would be interviewed. Barefoot toddler saved by bus driver A bus driver in Milwaukee is honoured for saving a child wandering alone in freezing conditions. Heroic bus driver rescues unattended baby in Milwaukee CCTV recording released by Milwaukee County Transit System shows a bus driver running to the rescue of a baby girl who was found wandering on a street in Wisconsin's largest city last month. Bus driver rescues baby wandering on overpass The Milwaukee County Transit System says an alert bus driver rescued a young child found wandering barefoot on a freeway overpass in frigid temperatures. The incident was captured on video. New truck automation helps driver steer, brake Daimler Trucks is introducing a new autonomous driver assist system that will accelerate, brake and steer. The company says it helps the driver keep from getting too tired on long-haul trips. WATCH: Masturbating Mr D driver dismissed after video goes viral Masturbating Mr D driver dismissed after video goes viral. WATCH: Suspects run for cover after heavy fire from security officers disrupts armed robbery Two Chinese nationals and their driver were robbed of R23 000 along the M2 near the Main Reef Road exit in Johannesburg on Tuesday. Truck driver in Humboldt Broncos crash pleads guilty The driver of a transport truck involved in a deadly crash with the Humboldt Broncos junior hockey team's bus has pleaded guilty to all charges against him. Jaskirat Singh Sidhu appeared in a court in Melfort, Saskatchewan. Sixteen people lost the... Truck driver in Humboldt Broncos crash pleads guilty The driver of the truck involved in the deadly crash with the Humboldt Broncos bus has pleaded guilty to all charges against him. Jaskirat Singh Sidhu’s lawyer says Sidhu didn’t want a trial. Uber driver pleads guilty to Michigan shooting spree An Uber driver accused of fatally shooting six people in Michigan and wounding two others while on the job pleaded guilty to all charges on Monday, after initially blaming the ride sharing company's app for compelling him to kill. New tech at CES: big brother in your car Annoyed by that backseat driver in your car? Well now, you can expect to have the car keep an eye on you as well as companies unveil their driver monitoring technology at CES. Jane Lee has more. AP Top Stories January 7 Here are the top stories for Monday, January 7th: Trump plans prime time address on border wall; Uber driver in Michigan pleads guilty to killings; Kevin Spacey makes court appearance in sex abuse case ; Ice sculptors compete in Chinese competition. 'Michael 50' exhibition opens onSchumacher's 50th birthday Fans and representatives of Scuderia Ferrari Clubs from all over Europe flocked to the Ferrari Museum in Maranello for the opening of the "Michael 50" exhibition for the renowned Formula 1 driver Michael Schumacher's 50th birthday. AP Top Stories January 7 Here's the latest for Monday January 7th: Trump says gov't workers have to make 'adjustments' during shutdown; US and China talk trade in Beijing; Suspect arrested in death of 7-year-old Texas girl; Family of five and suspected drunk driver die in...   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.