Correspondent Thembisile Yende. (Facebook) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The brother of Thembisile Yende - the Eskom employee who was murdered in May 2017 - died on Wednesday, Times Live reported. Mboneni Yende had been at the forefront of attempts to bring his sister's killer to book. Thembisile, a 29-year-old mother of one, went missing on May 17, 2017, News24 reported. Her body was found in her office at the isolated Eskom Pietersboth substation in Springs about 36km outside of Johannesburg. This was after Eskom workers detected a bad smell more than a week after she was reported missing. Thembisile's lover and colleague, David Ngwenya, was arrested on June 15 the same year but charges against him have since been withdrawn. Read: 3 people were present when Thembisile Yende was murdered Ngwenya, a 43-year-old technician at Eskom at the time, was accused of injecting Thembisile with a substance before striking her on the head with a crowbar and subsequently suffocating and strangling her after a struggle. He allegedly killed her after he suspected that she would "spill the beans" on his alleged involvement in a copper cable theft syndicate. According to Times Live, Mboneni died in hospital after an operation on Wednesday. A family spokesperson told Times Live Mboneni had been diagnosed with gastritis late in 2018. Brian Sithole told that publication Mboneni died in hospital around 00:00. "He was admitted two weeks ago for an operation." He reportedly said Mboneni's death was a blow to the Yende family, who was still seeking justice for Thembisile's death. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan briefs South Africa on state of Eskom Eskom held a media briefing at 14:00 at Megawatt Park on Thursday to give an update on its operational challenges. WATCH: Worker takes Eskom labour brokers to court Witness Chauke is not afraid to speak truth to power. He says it was for this reason that his contract was terminated. He was the chairman of his group of (NUMSA) members at Eskom before his contract was terminated. WATCH: This father says outsourcing at Eskom is hurting his kids' future When Tshepang's* first child was born, he dropped out of school to seek work. He has worked as a contractor at various state entities. His current contract sees his salary filtered through two labour broking companies before it reaches him. WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. WATCH: Pravin will destroy Eskom and SAA in order to privatise them - EFF The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) staged a picket outside the State Capture Inquiry on Monday calling for the removal of Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Public Enterprises. 'This is a well orchestrated campaign to vilify my name' - Gigaba on leaked Eskom report Parliament's committee on public enterprises is now part of a campaign aimed at destroying Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.