Duncan Alfreds Millions have been won in the National Lottery. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The multimillion-rand PowerBall winner has not yet come forward to claim the massive prize. One person from Cape Town won R232 131 750.69 on Tuesday night. "The winner has not come forth yet," Ithuba Corporate Relations Executive Khensani Mabuza told News24 on Wednesday morning. READ: Multimillionaire status! One person wins record PowerBall jackpot The winning ticket was bought in Tygerdal, she added. "They played a manual selection and they played for R22.50 and the ticket was bought at OK Minimark in Tygerdal, Cape Town," said Mabuza. Only one ticket won the jackpot which was nearly R10m more than the estimated amount. The lottery operator said total sales for the draw was more than R74m. Security system Ithuba said it had an advanced security system to prevent people from fraudulently claiming prizes. "We've got an incredibly advanced security system. The way that we verify our tickets is world class," said Mabuza. "We do have incidents of fraud but they're caught so quickly that it never goes so far that we were about to pay out to someone. It's picked up as soon as they try to claim." However, she added that hearts were sometimes broken through mistakes. "Mistakes happen where people come in and think they've won R20 000 but they've won R2 000." If you would like to check to see if you were a winner, here are the winning numbers: PowerBall numbers: 14, 18, 21, 26, 35 PowerBall: 5 PowerBall Plus numbers: 14, 16, 32, 38, 50 PowerBall: 19 The next PowerBall and PowerBall Plus draws are on Friday. Get your tickets and get the results right here on News24. Download the News24 app via the Play or the iTunes app stores and get a free alert when results are in after each draw. Tap here to download for Android or here to download for iOS. Get the full list of past Lotto and PowerBall draws here. *Please note that the information provided herein is third party information. While every effort is expended to ensure that the information provided is true and accurate, we are not responsible for errors, omissions or any loss which an individual may experience. See the National Lottery Terms and conditions here.   KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Winning ticket sold in $1.6 bln U.S. lottery One ticket sold in South Carolina matched all six numbers in the Mega Millions lottery draw for a record-setting $1.6 billion jackpot, the state's lottery says. WATCH: Dan Plato elected as Cape Town mayor Dan Plato has been elected as Cape Town's new executive mayor during a special council sitting on Tuesday. WATCH: This young Khayelitsha artist used drawing to escape drugs and alcohol abuse Luvo Khehla, a second-year graphics design student at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology, says art helped him escape a life of drug and alcohol abuse. Two winning Powerball tickets sold in NY, Iowa Two winning tickets in the $688 million Powerball jackpot were sold in New York and Iowa. NY man revealed as $343M Powerball jackpot winner Robert Bailey was introduced Wednesday by New York lottery officials as the winner of last months record-breaking Powerball jackpot. Bailey shares his winnings of nearly $700 million, with a woman in Iowa who also picked the winning combo. Lottery hopefuls dream big ahead of $1.6B draw Lottery fever is spreading in the United States this week with a Mega Millions jackpot of $1.6 billion and a $620 million Powerball up for grabs. Mammoth lottery jackpots top $1.3 billion The Mega Millions and Powerball jackpots combined now top $1.3 billion. Linda So has more. WATCH: MyCiTi employees' 'wildcat' strike continued on Tuesday A "wildcat" strike by MyCiTi employees appeared to enter its second day on Tuesday as the bus service announced disruptions on several routes around Cape Town. WATCH: Cape Town's karate kid raises tournament money through hard work and community support A pint-sized karate kid from Lansdowne in Cape Town has unleashed his inner entrepreneur, raising money to take part in a national karate tournament by selling atchar, dried fruit and sauces at a stall in Rylands. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. VIDEO: 'We pay R2 to use mall toilets' – Cape Town informal settlement residents demand basic servic Five Cape Town communities joined with social justice movements to march to the Cape Town Civic Centre on Thursday. 

The protesters expressed exasperation over the lack of basic services in informal settlements in the city. WATCH: Zille breaks ground on R3bn mixed-income residential project Western Cape Premier Helen Zille said the "pioneering" housing project expected at the site of the derelict old Conradie Hospital in Cape Town could "make or break" the current housing system. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. WATCH: Bakkie goes swimming while trying to pull boat out of the water in Cape Town A man who was pulling a boat out of the water at the Oceana Power Boat Club in Granger Bay, Cape Town, got more than he bargained for at the weekend when his vehicle also had to be towed out of the water.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.