Sarah Evans President Cyril Ramaphosa (Deaan Vivier, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories President Cyril Ramaphosa has established a Special Investigating Unit (SIU) Special Tribunal, in an effort to fast track the recovery of funds lost to the state from corruption or irregular spending. The Presidency said in a statement on Sunday that there was a need to fast-track the finalisation of matters that had been referred for civil litigation after the conclusion of an investigation. These are matters where the SIU would ordinarily have gone the civil litigation route to have government contracts declared invalid, or set aside. READ: SIU probes R139 billion rot at Medupi and Kusile - report Spokesperson Khusela Diko said: "Fast-tracking these matters through the Special Tribunal will enable the SIU to recover monies and or assets lost by state institutions through irregular and corrupt means; thus ensuring that those who are responsible for the loss of monies and or assets by state institutions are held accountable. The litigation process includes both public and private sectors, persons and entities." The Special Tribunal will be able to adjudicate any civil proceedings brought to it by the SIU, either in its own name or on behalf of a state institution or interested party, which stems from an SIU investigation. "Such civil proceedings will be based on the outcomes from the investigations by SIU," said Diko. Judge Gidfonia Mlindelwa Makhanya has been appointed as president of the Tribunal, for a three year term. The additional members of the Tribunal are: - Judge Icantharuby Pillay - Judge Johannes Eksteen - Judge Selewe Peter Mothle - Judge Lebogang Modiba - Judge Thina Siwendu - Judge David van Zyl and - Judge Sirajudien Desai. WATCH: Ramaphosa calls on private sector to assist with the fight against corruption Corruption has become a big issue that has to be addressed by the whole nation, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Thursday. Ramaphosa: I will sing Masekela's 'Thuma Mina' if EFF win in May South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa jokingly says that if the Economic Freedom Fighters win elections in May, he will sing Hugh Masekela's song 'Thuma Mina' in Parliament. Ramaphosa was delivering his last state-of-the-nation address ahead of... WATCH: Agrizzi, van Tonder and Gillingham appear in dock The Hawks on Wednesday arrested six suspects on allegations of corruption, money laundering and fraud relating to Bosasa. A warrant of arrest has been issued for a seventh suspect. Whistleblowers should still come forward says Hawks after Bosasa arrests ormer Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi, former correctional services CFO Patrick Gillingham, and Bosasa official Andries van Tonder, on Wednesday briefly appeared in the dock at the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court. 'I will kill you' - Bosasa operative to journalist News24 editor-in-chief Adriaan Basson told the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture that a public relations executive paid by Bosasa said she would "kill" him if he told anyone about a threatening phone call she had made to him. WATCH: Ramaphosa's reincarnated Scorpions a 'seminal moment' in SONA 2019 News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson calls President Cyril Ramaphosa's announcement that he will bring back a Scorpions-like unit to help root out corruption a 'major announcement' during post-SONA analysis. WATCH: 'Give me a tender' - sings satirical 'Elvis' on Bosasa scandal The much-talked about Bosasa scandal has gripped South Africa over the past week since former chief-operating officer Angelo Agrizzi blew the whistle on bribery and corruption. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi continues to testify at state capture inquiry - Day 2 The second day of testimony by former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi at the commission of inquiry into state capture is set to be far more explosive and damning for the ruling ANC party and his former colleagues.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.