Ntwaagae Seleka Valhalla Primary School.  (Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Pretoria teacher, who is alleged to have inappropriately touched learners at Valhalla Primary School in Centurion, is facing seven counts of sexual assault. The 55-year-old man, who can't be named because he has not pleaded, appeared briefly in the Pretoria Magistrate's Court on Friday. Initially, police and the Gauteng education department said that about 23 learners from the school had laid complaints against the teacher. He was arrested on Thursday after he handed himself over to the police. The offences surfaced in January when members of the Tshwane Metro Police Department (TMPD) visited the school to teach learners about abuse. READ: Centurion teacher suspected of sexually abusing girls as young as 6 Pupils confided in the officers, alleging that the suspect was inappropriately touching them. The officer informed the principal who alerted the district office. Parents expressed anger on Wednesday saying that they only became aware of the alleged crimes on Tuesday afternoon. They blamed the school for failing to inform them. The teacher joined the school in 2017 after he was appointed. He was then permanently appointed in January 2019 by the department. The incidents dates back to 2017 and 2018, according to police spokesperson Colonel Lungelo Dlamini. READ: Teacher arrested for allegedly sexually abusing pupils at Valhalla Primary School On Friday, Gauteng education department spokesperson Steve Mabona pleaded with parents to allow law enforcement to do their work. "We are pleading with all stakeholders involved in the matter to stay in their lanes. Parents must desist from coaching their children. We don't want them to contaminate our case. We have lost many cases before due to contamination. "We don't want to see this matter struck off the roll. We are happy about the movement of this case so far. The department has started with disciplinary processes against the teacher and he has been removed from the school," Mabona said. Trauma counselling Former AB Xuma Primary scholar patrol guard in Soweto, Johannes Molefe, 58, was acquitted in December 2018 of three counts of rape and 11 of sexual assault in the Gauteng High Court sitting in the Palm Ridge Magistrate's Court. In handing down judgment in that case, acting Judge Peet Johnson commented that "suspicion that someone has done something [was] not proved beyond a reasonable doubt". The department is continuing offering trauma counselling to learners at the school. "We encourage metro officers to continue teaching our learners about abuse. If it was not because of them, we wouldn't have known about these incidents," Mabona said. He urged all schools in the province to appoint liaison officers who would be able to quickly detect when learners were being abused. The department was also investigating why teachers, who allegedly knew about the abuse, didn't alert the police. READ: Pretoria primary school teacher suspended over sexual abuse claims Magistrate Ignatius Du Preez postponed the case until February 13 for further investigations and a possible bail application. Gauteng NPA spokesperson Phindi Mjonondwane said the State had asked for a postponement in order to check if the accused had previous charges and convictions against him. Mjonondwane encouraged parents of other learners who could have been abused by the teacher to contact the investigating officer. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: School pupil captured on video as he hurls abuse at teacher A video of a pupil hurling a barrage of insults at a teacher has surfaced – and it involves a primary school pupil in Gauteng. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. WATCH: Holy Cross primary in Cape Town on fire Firefighters were called out to Holy Cross RC Primary School in the Cape Town CBD after plumes of smoke were seen emanating from the premises. WATCH: New video footage from Hoërskool Driehoek tragedy New video footage has emerged, showing the devastation experienced at Hoërskool Driehoek, after a concrete slab fell on pupils on Friday. WATCH: Hundreds gather for emotional night vigil at Hoërskool Driehoek Hundreds of people gathered at Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark for an emotional night vigil, after a concrete slab collapsed at the school, killing three children and seriously injuring 25 others. WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.