Kaveel Singh The hole that was chiselled into a drain to extricate the newborn baby. Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Durban mother who allegedly abandoned her baby in a stormwater drain was granted R5 000 bail in the Ntuzuma Magistrate's Court on Wednesday. Dressed in a grey jacket and blue jeans, the 32-year-old – who cannot legally be named because the baby is a minor – was told that she would no longer have access to the baby, or her 15-year-old and 9-year-old children. While she has been charged with attempted murder, there was strong family support for her in the public gallery. Magistrate Ravi Pillay ruled that the woman should remain in the custody of the warrant officer who arrested her. The officer is said to be her relative and played an instrumental role in her arrest. WATCH: Rescuers save newborn baby girl in three-hour operation A newborn baby girl has been saved after emergency services conducted a three hour mammoth rescue from a storm drain pipe in Durban. READ: Durban mother faces attempted murder charge for abandoning 'miracle' baby The bail conditions also called for the unemployed mother to refrain from contacting any State witnesses. Speaking on her behalf, lawyer Jacques Botha said that pre and post-natal depression would be a factor in the matter. "I am not a medical professional, but I think from the facts, it will feature strongly." The matter returns to Ntuzuma Magistrate's Court on April 8. The baby girl, dubbed a "miracle child", was saved after emergency services conducted a mammoth three-hour rescue from a storm drain pipe. ALSO READ: KZN stormwater drain baby a 'wake-up call' for family planning - MEC This was after the child's cries were heard around 07:30 on Monday, February 11, on the corner of Barracuda Road and Herring Way in Newlands East. Soon after her rescue, the baby was taken to Chief Albert Luthuli Hospital, where she was treated. On arrival, she was said to have been in good health. "She has been awake, responsive and crying. Her glucose and sugar levels are good. She is stable enough for [a] transfer to base hospital so the social aspect can be sorted," Dr Timothy Hardcastle told journalists at the hospital shortly after the child's rescue. On arrival at the hospital, it was said that the biggest challenge was her low temperature. WATCH: Rescue workers attempt to save baby from drain pipe A dramatic rescue of an apparent newborn is underway in Durban after passerby's heard the child's cries on Monday morning. WATCH: Durban baby rescued from storm drain a 'miracle' - doctor The newborn baby that was rescued from a stormwater pipe in Durban on Monday morning is in good health, her attending physician has said. WATCH: Newborn found in bin might get a new lease on life An abandoned KwaZulu-Natal newborn found in the bin might soon have a new place to call home. Watch. WATCH: Door of Hope: A new beginning for abandoned babies The Door of Hope organisation has taken care of more than 1500 children since it was established in 1999.

One of the ways they take in children is through the "baby bin" - a hole in the wall were parents can leave their unwanted babies.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.