Jenni Evans The borehole test strikes fresh water. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Makana municipality in the Eastern Cape has declared all its water, except in Riebeek East, free from E. coli as the Gift of the Givers rejoices over the quick discovery of underground water in Makhanda (formerly Grahamstown) that could help the troubled region pull through its water crisis soon. "The February results, according to the National Health Laboratory Service report, indicates failure in Riebeek East only in terms of E. coli, with all other testing areas/sampling points complying, meaning it is safe for human consumption," stated municipal communications officer Yoliswa Ramokolo. People living in Riebeek East must still boil their water before drinking it as work continues to rectify their situation. Ramokolo said the statement was in response to a social media message about the toxicity of water in the region. More sampling will be done and health statistics will also be collated to monitor the prevalence of water-borne diseases during the past months. The municipality has been battling to repair neglected water supply equipment, problems with pumps and a drought, which led to a scarcity of fresh water in the region that is home to Rhodes University. Read: Rhodes not closing over Makhanda water crisis Drilling yields positive results To tide residents over, the Gift of the Givers has been delivering lorry loads of fresh drinking water. The charity has also brought in hydrologist Dr Gideon Groenewald, and was overjoyed to announce on Tuesday that on his first attempt he found pure drinking water at 145m in Makhanda. The charity believes this could produce 20 000 litres per day "as a very conservative estimate". Read more: Makhanda water crisis: Gift of the Givers to bring water and expertise "Tomorrow the drilling rig will be positioned at other sites with a similar rock formation where it is expected that higher yields of water will be found at a lesser depth," said Gift of the Givers' head Imtiaz Sooliman. "The aim is to drill at as many sites as possible to provide a sustainable alternative to bottled water which is an emergency stop gap measure," he explained. They also brought in animal fodder from Howick in KwaZulu-Natal, which will be distributed to emerging farmers for their cattle. Where to find the world's most crystal-clear water paradise spots Love island life? Here's where to find the world's bluest, blue waters. Boulders Beach - Home of the African Penguin It is one of the world's most Instagrammed beaches. It is nature at its most pristine. And you can even swim with penguins. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. WATCH: Pensioner's home on verge of collapse after municipal roadworks When Dora Mamba bought her three-bedroom house in Hospital View in 1990, she rejoiced at accomplishing her lifelong dream of being a homeowner.
Twenty-three years later, her pride and joy began to crumble. WATCH: New toilet uses 2 litres of water instead of the average 11 litres A new toilet that uses only 2 litres of water instead of the average 11 litres could be a new fixture in South African homes. WATCH: 'We have nothing' - Vredenburg residents demand better service delivery On Tuesday, residents of Vredenburg in the Western Cape – who have had enough of living in what they described as a "dump" – took to the streets with sjamboks, sticks and knobkieries to demand better service delivery.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.