Jenna Etheridge WATCH: Rohde 'used wife's body as a show house' to sell his story – Judge Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe referenced Jason Rohde's history as the former CEO of Lew Geffen Sotheby's International Realty by comparing the staging of his wife's suicide to the staging of a house by estate agents. The Western Cape High Court on Wednesday sentenced Jason Rohde to an effective 20 years in prison for killing his wife Susan and staging her suicide in Stellenbosch in 2016. Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe said 18 years for the murder was an appropriate sentence. He received five years for staging the suicide, three of which would run concurrently. Rohde, 50, was found guilty in November of murdering his wife at the Spier hotel in July 2016 and of obstructing justice by trying to make her death look self-inflicted. The property mogul had "staged her death as a play" and roped in various "actors" and "extras" to tell a story that she had committed suicide, Salie-Hlophe said in her judgment. He has maintained his innocence throughout the trial. His position was that his affair drove his wife to take her life. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH LIVE: Jason Rohde sentencing procedures get underway Convicted murderer Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings will get underway in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday December 5. WATCH: Jason Rohde sentencing gets underway Murder accused Jason Rohde's sentencing proceedings got underway in the Western Cape Western Cape High Court on Wednesday November 21. WATCH: Jason Rohde guilty of murder; bail denied (full stream) Jason Rohde has been found guilty of the murder of his wife Susan by the Western Cape High Court on Thursday. MOMENT OF TRUTH: Jason Rohde found guilty of murder Jason Rohde was found guilty of the murder of his wife Susan by the Western Cape High Court on Thursday. He was also found guilty of obstructing the ends of justice. 

Judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe delivered her judgment in under two hours. WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 3) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 2) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Defence submits closing arguments in Rohde trial – was it suicide or murder? (Part 1) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband, Jason, violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail? WATCH: Closing arguments in Rohde trial - was it suicide or murder? (Part2) Did a heartbroken Susan Rohde end her own life in the bathroom of a fancy winelands hotel in July 2016 or did her husband Jason violently cut her life short and try to lead police off the trail?   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.