Kyle Cowan Inside the ANC's Bosasa election war room Bosasa sponsored these war rooms for the past three elections for the ANC, at an estimated cost of R2-million per election. Election "war rooms" for the African National Congress were set up at the Krugersdorp headquarters of corruption-accused company Bosasa in the run up to at least three previous elections, without the party having to carry any of the costs. It included two local government elections and a national election campaign at an average cost of, according to a well-placed Bosasa source, R2m per election. News24 has obtained a short video clip of the "war room" set up at Bosasa for the ANC in 2014 which shows a massive screen wall displaying a live map of the election results, TV screens and around 30 cubicles, each with a computer and a telephone. According to the sources' breakdown of costs , the video wall cost Bosasa in excess of R400 000, the brand new computers and software licensing cost around R450 000 for 32 new PCs and Bosasa picked up the tab for the phone bills, roughly R14 000 a week for four weeks. Costs also included R210 000 for software development, meals and special refreshments daily for more than 70 volunteers at a cost of roughly R19 000 a day or R570 000 a month, special security additions to secure the offices, as well as payment for the volunteers, which amounted to around R700 000.  A screenshot of the short video showing the Bosasa sponsored ANC '"war room" and the cubicles where volunteers worked the phone lines ahead of the 2014 national elections. Last week, former treasurer general of the ANC Zweli Mkhize confirmed that the party accepted donations from Bosasa "directly or in kind". This came as he was confronted with a 2014 photograph of himself with a Bosasa delegation, including CEO Gavin Watson, at Luthuli House. ALSO READ: ANC accepted Bosasa millions for years Mkhize claimed the meeting was "introductory" and that he regularly met with business people from all walks of life. At the time, News24 reported that sources claimed Bosasa had donated, conservatively, R40m to the ANC over the years and in the run up to the 2014 national elections, R6m. Bosasa directors (from left) Papa Leshabane, Thandi Makoko, Gavin Watson, Joe Gumede with former ANC treasurer general Zweli Mkhize (centre) and politically connected fixer Sesinyi Seopela (far right) during a meeting at Luthuli House in 2014. (Supplied) The video of the war room, showing 2014 ANC elections posters as screensavers on the computers, provides further evidence that the ANC's relationship with Bosasa was far closer than the party is willing to admit. At the time of writing ANC national spokesperson Dakota Legoete, had not responded to detailed questions over the Bosasa "war room", including questions over who managed the volunteers from the ANC, why Bosasa carried the costs for the party and why the ANC did not have infrastructure of this sort already and permanently in place. The questions were sent on Monday afternoon. Watson was unreachable on Tuesday, while former Bosasa director Papa Leshabane read but did not respond to text messages News24 sent. READ: Bosasa employees return to work following panic over liquidator's letter News24 understands that neither Leshabane nor Watson can speak on behalf of the company since the appointment of liquidator Cloete Murray on Friday last week. Murray was not immediately available. Bosasa was placed under voluntary liquidation last week following a decision by two banks to close the company's accounts. The Bosasa board has now been dissolved in accordance with the Companies Act, and Murray is now responsible for winding up its affairs. On Monday this week, an unknown number of employees received termination notices, sparking a small protest outside its offices.  A large screen wall with a live elections map inside the "war room" for the ANC elections team at Bosasa offices in Krugersdorp. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  PODCAST: The depressing budget, Gavin Watson in action... and Eskom AUDIO: This week on POLOTIKI, we had the budget speech and, yes, it was depressing. Video emerged of Bosasa boss Gavin Watson belittling staff, and more explosive testimony at the commission of inquiry into state capture with the spotlight on Eskom. WATCH: Bosasa liquidator takes charge of documents, servers Bosasa liquidator Cloete Murray on Friday took charge at the company's headquarters in Krugersdorp following their voluntary liquidation. WATCH: SARS swoops on Bosasa A team of South African Revenue Service officials arrived at Bosasa's head office shortly after noon on Friday to execute a search and seizure warrant. KYK: 'Bosasa is 'n Koninkryksmaatskappy' Gavin Watson, Bosasa-hoof, het in 2009 getuig hoe Bosasa op Christelike beginsels gegrond is. WATCH: Bosasa staff locked out by liquidators Bosasa staff locked out by liquidators ANALYSIS: In a way this is the end of Bosasa, says Adriaan Basson News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and Opinions Editor Alet Janse van Rensburg unpack the latest developments in the Bosasa scandal, after the company announced it was under voluntary liquidation. Watch. WATCH: Striking Bosasa workers didn't know about liquidation Workers employed by facilities management company Bosasa, now known as African Global Operations, staged a demonstration outside its Mogale City head office on Monday - minutes after the company announced its voluntary liquidation. Whistleblowers should still come forward says Hawks after Bosasa arrests ormer Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi, former correctional services CFO Patrick Gillingham, and Bosasa official Andries van Tonder, on Wednesday briefly appeared in the dock at the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court. WATCH: Agrizzi, van Tonder and Gillingham appear in dock The Hawks on Wednesday arrested six suspects on allegations of corruption, money laundering and fraud relating to Bosasa. A warrant of arrest has been issued for a seventh suspect. WATCH: 'Ja boetie...and R900k next week' – Zondo inquiry hears from Bosasa bag man Yet more explosive testimony before the Zondo Commission of inquiry into state capture on Tuesday has revealed the identity of a man who delivered cash to Bosasa, which was in turn used to pay bribes to government officials and ministers. 'I will kill you' - Bosasa operative to journalist News24 editor-in-chief Adriaan Basson told the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture that a public relations executive paid by Bosasa said she would "kill" him if he told anyone about a threatening phone call she had made to him. PODCAST: Zuma's nine lost years? Ramaphosa shouldn't forget — he was there AUDIO: 2019 is off to a flying start, from Bosasa and the endless inquiries to Solly Msimanga stepping down as Tshwane mayor and electioneering getting into full swing.

This week on POLOTIKI, we discuss former president Jacob Zuma's legacy. LISTEN: 'That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. LISTEN: That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. LISTEN: Bosasa bosses Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma [WITH SUBTITLES] In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. WATCH: 'Give me a tender' - sings satirical 'Elvis' on Bosasa scandal The much-talked about Bosasa scandal has gripped South Africa over the past week since former chief-operating officer Angelo Agrizzi blew the whistle on bribery and corruption. LISTEN: Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. WATCH: Agrizzi details unfair advantage given to Bosasa to secure 'one of the biggest' tenders Former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi is on the stand for the fifth day at the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry - Agrizzi to implicate more officials Former Bosasa chief operating officer Angelo Agrizzi will be back on the witness stand for a fifth day and more officials are expected to be implicated in his testimony. WATCH: Gavin Watson belittles Bosasa staff, talks of his tender 'networks' Gavin Watson,, CEO of Bosasa, tackles staff over mistakes in their work submitting tenders. He mentions one contract worth R800-million which was nearly lost due to such a mistake. The video was taken during a Bosasa 'Imbizo', at Silverstar Casino.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.