Jenna Etheridge Golden Arrow bus burnt out on Main Road, Somerset West. (Supplied: Heinz Jacobs) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Police are on the hunt for the culprits who set alight three trucks at a packaging industry strike in the east of Johannesburg this week. Watch. WATCH A Golden Arrow bus caught alight in Somerset West on Friday morning, injuring some passengers, authorities said. The bus had travelled from Harare in Khayelitsha when the fire started in Main Road at around 07:00, said police spokesperson Captain FC van Wyk. He said two passengers were injured and 66 others were unharmed. Photos of the bus showed that the entire vehicle had burnt out. "Emergency personnel on the scene assisted the injured women [who] both suffered slight injuries. It is believed a mechanical fault was the cause of the fire." However, Golden Arrow spokesperson Bronwen Dyke-Beyer said they did not yet know what caused the fire and would launch an investigation. According to her information, there were seven injuries and all those who were affected received treatment. Van Wyk said no foul play was suspected. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Cyril Ramaphosa will have to arrest half the cabinet and NEC - Julius Malema Opposition parties stayed seated and did not raise numerous points of order, as has been customary during previous Sonas by Ramaphosa's predecessor Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Ramaphosa's reincarnated Scorpions a 'seminal moment' in SONA 2019 News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson calls President Cyril Ramaphosa's announcement that he will bring back a Scorpions-like unit to help root out corruption a 'major announcement' during post-SONA analysis. WATCH: EFF MP slaps security official at Parliament The Economic Freedom Fighters were caught in yet another scuffle at Parliament on Thursday, when one of their MPs assaulted a security official. WATCH: Mountain blaze breaks out in Camps Bay Firefighters responded to a blaze that erupted in The Glen area of Camps Bay on Thursday afternoon. Watch. WATCH: New video footage from Hoërskool Driehoek tragedy New video footage has emerged, showing the devastation experienced at Hoërskool Driehoek, after a concrete slab fell on pupils on Friday. WATCH: Holy Cross primary in Cape Town on fire Firefighters were called out to Holy Cross RC Primary School in the Cape Town CBD after plumes of smoke were seen emanating from the premises.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.