Judy Philander Survivor recounts battle against mountain lion Bashing a mountain lion in the head with a rock didn’t work, so Travis Kauffman changed his tactics and suffocated the cat by jamming his foot on its neck. Kauffman recounted the attack in a news conference 10 days after the attack. Travis kauffman. (Getty/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Travis Kauffman was on a long-distance run in the mountains west of Fort Collins in Colorado, USA, when he encountered a mountain lion. This past week, the 31-year-old gave a local radio station a personal account of his life-and-death struggle. He says that he first noticed the beast when he heard footsteps in the pine needles behind him, The New York Post reports. "I stopped and turned. In the back of my mind I always wonder if it’s something dangerous like a bear or a bobcat or a mountain lion, and in this case it was in fact a mountain lion," he told KUNC radio. Kauffman attempted to scare off the mountain lion by putting up his arms and screaming at it but the animal charged at him and pounced. The lion, which Kauffman estimates weighed about 35 kg, bit down on his wrist and hand, scratched his back with its front claw and gouged his thighs with its hind legs. "There was a point when I thought I could end up there and stay there," Kauffman said. Kauffman and the lion tumbled off the trail during the straggle, the big cat landing on its back. It was then that the 31-year-old managed to pin its hind legs down with his body, picked up a rock and started hitting at the mountain lion’s head. But it took repeatedly stepping on the lion’s neck, suffocating it, before Kauffman could escape the deadly grip, reports USA Today reports. Colorado Parks and Wildlife officials said Kauffman is lucky to have survived the rare encounter, The Denver Post reports. He had to get more than 20 stitches to his face and also suffered multiple superficial contusions and puncture wounds to his neck and legs. Kauffman told the radio station he feared for his life during the struggle, which lasted about 10 minutes. "One of the thoughts that I was having was, ‘Well, this would be a pretty crappy way to die’." Kauffman says he’s going straight back to the same running trail after he returns from an upcoming overseas vacation. LIVE || press conference featuring the trail runner who survived the Feb. 4 mountain lion attack. https://t.co/yxqX0gVdX3 Sources: The New York Post, USA Today, The Denver Post Colorado jogger strangles mountain lion after attack A Colorado jogger strangled a juvenile mountain lion in the foothills of Horsetooth Mountain northwest of Denver, acting in self-defense after the predator attacked him, authorities said on Tuesday. Colette Luke has more. Cheeky Lion Cub Bites Mother's Tail This little lion cub tested its mother's patience... by trying to bite her tail. Man recounts battle against mountain lion Travis Kauffman was running a trail in the mountains west of Fort Collins, Colorado, when he was attacked by a mountain lion. Tiger killed by potential mate at London Zoo Female Sumatran tiger Melati has been killed by her potential new mate Asim on their first introduction at ZSL London Zoo. The 'last' lion dance costume maker Henry Ng believes he is one of the last people to make the lion dance costume in Singapore. Giraffe gives lion a piggy-back ride Africa's version of Uber? Lioness responds with a klap after being rudely awakened by cheeky male A naughty male lion sneaked up on a lioness while she was dozing in the road, and she wasn't too impressed about the interruption. Awkward! Three male lions take turns mating with lioness This lioness's milkshake brought all the boy lions to the yard. This is a video of a lioness having a mating party with three male lions - each taking turns and bumping the other away in an almost playful manner.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.