Kaveel Singh Durban University of Technology students on strike. (file) (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Durban University of Technology (DUT) is set to recommence its academic programme next week after management and the student representative council (SRC) found common ground. University spokesperson Alan Khan on Wednesday said the executive committee of the institution's senate considered the recommendation from the SRC for lectures to resume on Monday. READ: DUT vice chancellor booed off stage at slain student's memorial "Each faculty and academic department will implement a catch-up programme, taking into account the time lost. The university appreciates the patience and understanding from staff, students, parents and guardians following the tragic events that unfolded over the last week." DUT student Mlungisi Madonsela was shot and killed on campus last week Tuesday after security personnel and students clashed at the university. The incident led to the temporary shutdown of the institution. On Friday, DUT's management team and its student leadership resolved to reopen the administrative functions of the institution's campuses on Monday, February 11. Management and the SRC later agreed to the partial reopening of the university on Monday. Provincial police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele told News24 that a group of about 30 students had stoned the administration building last Tuesday, injuring an administration staffer and a security guard. DUT Vice-Chancellor Professor Thandwa Mthembu was booed off stage during the memorial service for Madonsela at the university on Tuesday. Students held placards blaming the university and Excellent Security Services, the security company contracted by DUT, for Madonsela's death. Madonsela's uncle, Xolani Ncanana, said the 20-year-old dedicated his time to politics. He said he was helpful to the community and that the family was still in shock. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.