Correspondent WATCH: Hundreds gather for emotional night vigil at Hoërskool Driehoek Hundreds of people gathered at Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark for an emotional night vigil, after a concrete slab collapsed at the school, killing three children and seriously injuring 25 others. A makeshift memorial to the four pupils who died when a walkway collapsed on Friday has sprung up at Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark.PHOTO: Felix Dlangamandla Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories In addition to tributes that continue to pour in for the victims of a structural collapse at Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark, money has also been raised to help those who are recovering in hospital. During a money-raising drive on Pretoria-based radio station Jacaranda FM, one anonymous listener contributed R200 000 to the family of Shamonè Steynvaart, who has been left paralysed when a concrete slab above a corridor linking two blocks of buildings came crashing down on 26 learners at the school on Friday, Netwerk24 reported. Four children died following the incident. According to the Afrikaans-language news site, the same listener donated a further R500 000 to the school. The listener reportedly donated the money after listening to Shamonè's mother, Charmaine Steynvaart, being interviewed on Breakfast with Martin Bester on that station. Jacaranda FM managed to raise a total of R865 000 to assist pupils who were hospitalised after the tragic incident. WATCH: SA Human Rights Commission reacts to the Hoërskool Driehoek tragedy SA Human Rights Commission will launch a problem to the four children that died at a high school in Vanderbijlpark after a walkway collapsed on Friday morning The power of radio to do good on display as Jacaranda FM and listeners assist Hoërskool Driehoek after the bridge tragedy https://t.co/j4644JYSQm  On Friday morning, pupils were heading to their classrooms after a morning assembly when the bridge suddenly collapsed. Roydon Olckers, Jandré Steyn and Marli Currie died on the scene while 23 others were taken to hospital. At the weekend, another learner, Marnus Nagel, succumbed to his injuries while in hospital. At the weekend, more than 1 000 learners, parents and supporters staged a vigil at the school, placing flowers and candles at the entrance, Vaal Weekblad reported. News24 on Wednesday reported that Jandré will be buried on Thursday at 11:00 in Vanderbijlpark, while Marli and Roydon will be buried separately on Friday - also in Vanderbijlpark. Marnus will be buried on Friday in Parys, Free State. On Wednesday morning, another learner was discharged from hospital, leaving 19 other learners hospitalised across Gauteng province. The radio station's Good Morning Angels initiative raised the money during the show on Wednesday, which was dedicated to the school and the affected learners, during a live broadcast at the school as part of the #MySchoolRocks competition. READ: Hoërskool Driehoek school to reopen on Monday "This morning's episode of Good Morning Angels focused on the Hoërskool Driehoek tragedy, chatting with Charmaine Steynvaart, mother of a 14-year-old learner who was involved in the Driehoek incident and only received the news yesterday that she would likely not walk again," said the station. The team then called on listeners for help and the response was bigger than they had imagined. Hoërskool Waterkloof raised R65 000 for the school, Wimpy South Africa called in and donated another R100 000 and a listener, who wanted to remain anonymous, donated R500 000 to the school. A further R200 000 was donated to the family of Shamonè Steynvaart. Shamoné, 14 and 17-year-old Milindi Weber sustained back injuries during the accident and are being treated in the Wilgers Hospital in Pretoria. The station said representatives of the Hoërskool Waterkloof pupils and Jacaranda FM's Good Morning Angels visited the two girls in hospital on Tuesday. Milindi, who is a matriculant, is expected to make a full recovery, although she has to wear a back brace and has weeks of recovery ahead. Shamoné who is in Grade 9, is still in Intensive Care Unit, received the news that she would not be able to walk again. She still has weeks of rehabilitation ahead at another Pretoria facility before she and her family will be able to return to Vanderbijlpark. Her mother, Charmaine said as the family, their lives have changed forever.  @TeamNews24 #HoerskoolDriehoek scores of people outside the school gates. They laid wreaths in remembrance of the three learners who died earlier pic.twitter.com/kKnd5tcVpn  #HoerSkoolDriehoek Tributes continue pouring outside and inside the school. T-shirt, flags, pictures and wreaths are hanging on the school fence in remembrance of the tragedy that occurred last week. (@ntwaagae) pic.twitter.com/53ZXZ9S5Pp  #HoerSkoolDriehoek Learners accompanied by parents, arrived in large numbers to be counselled in the school. Tears are still flowing on many of the learners (@ntwaagae) pic.twitter.com/sYsBAXuADb  #HoerSkoolDriehoek trees and electricity poles outside the school are wrapped with purple and yellow clothing materials representing the school colours (@ntwaagae) pic.twitter.com/AUAczo1Wd5  #HoerSkoolDriehoek Security officers prayed outside the school in remembrance of the deceased learners (@ntwaagae) pic.twitter.com/ScsvW7p5kX  Meanwhile, sections of the Hoërskool Driehoek have been declared safe for learners and are expected to open on Monday, February 11. Gauteng Department of Education spokesperson Steve Mabona said head of department, Edward Mosuwe, was expected to announce later on Wednesday that pupils could officially return to class after the weekend. This is after structural engineers declared parts of the school safe. Mabona said parents had been alerted about the latest developments. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. WATCH: Khayelitsha school bids to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place Chairperson of Enkanini Primary's School Governing Body Andile Lili shows what the school is doing in a bid to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place at the school in Khayelitsha WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral. WATCH: Grade 1 pupil gets ready for big school Starting Grade 1 is a big step for little ones. For Luca (6), getting ready for school took quite some time on Wednesday morning, but he soon got into the swing of things.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.