Riaan Grobler SA police (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A former police officer who had been in the South African Police Service (SAPS) for over 26 years was convicted on eight counts of fraud and theft by the Vanderbijlpark Regional Court on February 22. The Hawks' serious corruption crime investigation unit's probe revealed that during 2017 Louis Philipus Benson, 44, fraudulently created sponsorship request letters with a police logo, the SAPS said in a statement. He then collected funds from various businesses while off duty, but dressed in police uniform, in and around the Vaal area. He used the proceeds for personal gain, which led to a disciplinary procedure and a dismissal from the police in December 2017. After he pleaded guilty, the court sentenced the former warrant officer to six years' imprisonment, which is wholly suspended for five years on condition that he is not convicted of theft or fraud during the period of suspension. Lieutenant General Godfrey Lebeya has welcomed the conviction and applauded the investigating team. "It is unacceptable for members to commit fraudulent acts in the name of the service. We urge our members to refrain from getting involved in any corrupt activities as such acts tarnishes the reputation of law enforcement agencies."  WATCH- Durban metro police officer among 3 dead in CBD shooting A metro police officer is among three people who were killed in a shooting near the KwaZulu-Natal High Court in Durban on Monday morning. WATCH: Woman kidnapped in Bergbron and robbed in her BMW A woman escaped unscathed after she was taken in her car and robbed on Saturday night in the Randburg suburb of Bergbron. WATCH: Couple caught on camera allegedly using child to rob crèches Concerns have been raised about a couple allegedly using their children to rob crèches and nursery schools in the Johannesburg area. WATCH: Domestic worker hit by car, driver speeds off A video of a woman being hit by a car while crossing the road in Benoni, reportedly on Monday morning, has been going viral on social media.
In the video, the woman is seen crossing the road outside the John Barrable Hall in Northmead, Benoni. WATCH: Robbers make off with woman's phone, bag as she walks in Muizenberg SAPS confirmed that a case of robbery was reported at Muizenberg police station on Tuesday 19 February 2019. The incident allegedly occurred on 9 February at approximately 07:40. WATCH: Dashcam captures truck driver's close call A truck driver was left shaken after narrowly missing an oncoming lorry overtaking a tractor on the N7. WATCH: 45 children tumble out of packed Nelson Mandela Bay taxi Nelson Mandela Bay Metro Police arrested a taxi driver who severely overloaded a minibus taxi on Monday, February 18. WATCH: Erratic driver tries to attack motorist A North West motorist was caught on camera recklessly driving on the R24 in Rustenburg with the attempt to threaten another driver. WATCH: Driver catches car thief in the act A motorist managed to stop car thieves seconds before they drove off with his vehicle from a parking lot at a Springs shopping centre.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.