Robyn Lucas Ryan Belchar. (Photo: Facebook/Ryan Belchar) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A weightlifter was hailed a hero last week after he saved a
man who was pinned beneath a two-ton SUV. Ryan Belchar from
Michigan in the US had just completed his workday
when he heard a loud crash along Michigan Avenue on Thursday 14 February, Daily
Mail reports. The 29-year-old discovered a black Jeep Cherokee flipped
upside down and rushed to the scene to help those who were injured. When he arrived, he heard a man crying for help under the
vehicle. Ryan says as he approached the vehicle he saw that despite
four men already trying to lift the car he’d be better able to help. The powerlifter, who weighs 160kg, realised he could get some leverage to try and move the vehicle off
the man, whose lower body was crushed and upper body was pinned against a road
sign, News.com
reports. “I just jumped right in. I
saw a window that was broken out of the back of the vehicle and I knew if I could
swing the vehicle in a certain direction I could free him from that pole. “So, I just stuck my arms in and I don’t know I just
grabbed it, lifted it up and started pushing and all I heard was, ‘That’s
enough. We can get him’,” he said. The man Ryan rescued and a woman were taken to hospital with serious injuries, Fox
News reports. “If I could describe it in one word, it would be ‘humbled’,”
Ryan says. “This could have been anybody. It could have been me. And
just getting home to my children after that is all I thought about. I'd hope if
it were me in there, somebody would help me the way I did them,” he said.  Ryan met with the family of the man he rescued and was
thanked for his heroic efforts. “I like being called the Hulk. My son's favourite is the
Hulk and he always says my daddy is the Hulk,” Ryan said. “To say I'm a hero, I don't know. I'm glad to have been
there and I was put there for a reason.” The accident is still being investigated. Sources: News.com.au,
Daily
Mail, Fox
News   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.