Tammy Petersen (File, Getty/Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Six
awaiting trial prisoners are still on the run a day after they escaped from the
Letsitele police station holding cells outside Tzaneen on Saturday, Limpopo
police have confirmed. Spokesperson Colonel Moatshe
Ngoepe said a manhunt had been launched for the fugitives, who escaped at about
16:45, when police officers were giving them their food. The escapees are Eddie Baloyi,
20, arrested for armed robbery and attempted murder; Adam Baloyi, 20, for house
robbery; Benedict Ledwaba, 36, for theft; and Doctor Kubayi, 31, Lordwick
Mhlongo, 36, and Frank Nyambi, 31, all arrested for business burglary. "The circumstances around
their escape are still being investigated," Ngoepe said. Anyone with information that could
lead to the escapees' re-arrests is urged to contact Colonel Cecil Machimane at
082 451 7181.  WATCH: Rolex gang strikes again? A motorist was robbed in Morningside, Sandton on Tuesday and it might be the work of the notorious Rolex gang. WATCH: Unpacking Ramaphosa's job creation plan News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and Head of Video Jerusha Sukhdeo-Raath discuss President Cyril Ramaphosa's plans for job creation that he announced during the State of the Nation Address on Thursday. Watch. WATCH: Understanding the 'end of Eskom as we know it' News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and News24 Head of Video Jerusha Sukhdeo-Raath discuss the 'unbundling' of Eskom that was announced in President Cyril Ramaphosa's second State of the Nation Address on Thursday. WATCH: Ramaphosa enjoys rare chance to practice his swing President Cyril Ramaphosa took to the golf course for the annual Presidential Golf Challenge at the Atlantic Beach Golf Estate in Melkbosstrand on Friday. WATCH: News24 analysis of Ramaphosa's 'feel-good' SONA News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and News24 Head of Video Jerusha Sukhdeo-Raath discuss the tone and substance of President Cyril Ramaphosa's second State of the Nation Address. WATCH: What would the Ramaphosa-Malema-Maimane band be called? If President Cyril Ramaphosa formed a band with EFF leader Julius Malema and DA leader Mmusi Maimane, what should it be called? WATCH: Mixed reaction to Ramaphosa's SONA speech While some political figures lauded President Cyril Ramaphosa's second State of the Nation speech, others dismissed it as 'lip service' and 'a campaigning speech'. Watch. WATCH: Ramaphosa's reincarnated Scorpions a 'seminal moment' in SONA 2019 News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson calls President Cyril Ramaphosa's announcement that he will bring back a Scorpions-like unit to help root out corruption a 'major announcement' during post-SONA analysis. WATCH: EFF MP slaps security official at Parliament The Economic Freedom Fighters were caught in yet another scuffle at Parliament on Thursday, when one of their MPs assaulted a security official.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.