Thirteen years after being established, PlumPets Animal Shelter in Plumstead is still caring for stray animals from the surrounding areas. However, the demand for space and care continues to grow. Paulette Bousfield, co-founder of the shelter, says she and her husband started the facility in 2006 with a small idea of rescuing lost and neglected dogs and cats found in their neighbourhood. But now they have many people from different communities bringing their vulnerable pets to them.But now Bousfield and her veterinary surgeon husband are no longer able to handle everything and cover all the costs themselves. She says they try their best to help the animals and cover medical costs where needed. However, Bousfield says more volunteers are needed, especially to walk and play with the pets in the evenings and/or assist with their monthly adoption days and other events. She says that most of the time, the animals in their care do not get exposed to the outside world, making it difficult to manage them when they take them out if they do not have enough volunteers. They also need assistance cleaning the cages and the open space used for the rehabilitation of the animals.While the cleaning of the interior of the cages takes place on a regular basis, she says the outside space gets cleaned every three months. They also welcome financial donations to cover the costs of dog and cat food for all ages, vaccinations, woodchips, maintenance of the garden, electricity and other hidden costs. Bousfield encourages people to consider supporting the adoption day by choosing at least one pet they love and adopting or fostering it to help ease the load and create space for other animals at their shelter. She says the shelter no longer has space and “unfortunately” they have to turn some stray animals away. “Pets need to get a forever home and live a normal life too,” Bousfield says. “We also run a raffle where we encourage schools to participate and name their favourite pets at a cost of R5 and host fundraising events like secondhand book sales when we can to help cover some costs, but we don’t have much time on our hands. Our focus is on giving these pets the best health and home we can until they get a comfortable home.” Bousfield also urges pet owners to consider sterilising them if they do not want more, to avoid ending up neglecting them or having to give them away.“That will help reduce the number of stray animals found in the streets.” She says animal welfare organisations are full of abandoned pets. For more information call 083 641 3535.