Duncan Alfreds Minibus taxis park at a rank in Sandton. (Duncan Alfreds, News24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories One in three taxi commuters in SA feel that minibus taxis are "very" or "somewhat" unsafe, a new report has found. The Public Perceptions of Taxi Use, Safety and Crime report, prepared by the Institute of Race Relations (IRR) in conjunction with the Friedrich Naumann Foundation for Freedom is designed to highlight the experiences of people who travel by taxi. "It's not directed at government. The taxi industry is an industry that does not enjoy scrutiny and what we wanted to illustrate is that it's fundamental to public transport," Gareth van Onselen, head of politics and government at the IRR, told News24 on Tuesday. The report found that half of survey respondents had witnessed taxi drivers breaking the law and 46% of taxi commuters believe that drivers are "very or somewhat" aggressive on the roads, compared to 49% of national respondents (which includes non-commuters as well). WATCH: 45 children tumble out of packed Nelson Mandela Bay taxi Nelson Mandela Bay Metro Police arrested a taxi driver who severely overloaded a minibus taxi on Monday, February 18. Overall, the biggest threat to safety on the roads according to survey respondents, is drunk driving. Among minibus taxi users, 56% identified drunk driving as a safety threat, compared to 53% of national respondents. 'Public service'  The survey was meant to indicate what problems South Africans experience with taxi commuting, rather than a push for additional legislation or policy. "It's [the report] really just a public service; this is how taxi users feel. It's giving a voice to people who use taxis that hasn't been done before," said Van Onselen. The report predictably found that the biggest concern for taxi users was being involved in an accident (45%), given the behaviour of drivers, but 17% of users were more concerned about being a victim of violence between taxis and, for 12% of people, there was concern about being assaulted or robbed while walking to or from a taxi stop. Also read: Bellville residents fear for their safety after shootings lead to taxi rank closure "We didn't go into great detail on violence and we didn't get into the causes. The most interesting thing was that the levels were far higher in Gauteng than in KwaZulu-Natal," said Van Onselen. When asked about their main concerns related to taxi road safety, the top three concerns were: drunk driving (55%); overloading (50%); disregard for the rules of the road (43%). On February 23, a taxi accident in the Ncwadi area of KwaZulu Natal, caused one death and 11 injuries, ER24 reported. "Paramedics assessed the patients and found that the taxi driver, a man in his 30s, had sustained numerous injuries and showed no signs of life. Nothing could be done for him and he was declared dead," Russel Meiring, ER24 Corporate Communications officer said in a brief statement at the time. Respect for the law The emergency medical service provider also reported 30 injuries in a crash between two taxis, a truck and a bakkie on the R114 in Nietgedacht, north of Johannesburg on February 22. "On assessment, paramedics found that at least four people were in a critical condition while twenty-six others had sustained minor to serious injuries. Fortunately, no fatalities were on the scene," Meiring said. The Public Perceptions of Taxi Use, Safety and Crime report gives an indication of the lack of respect for the law,with 43% of respondents saying they had witnessed a driver offering a bribe to avoid a fine, and 44% saying they had witnessed a driver being unable to produce a driving licence. The report was compiled in December 2018 and comprised a representative sample of 1 237 adults in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. Get the full report here.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: Pedestrian mowed down by taxi driving in the wrong lane A taxi driving on the wrong side of the road knocked over a pedestrian in morning traffic in Sharonlea, Johannesburg on Monday. WATCH: Taxi driver arrested after going viral for driving on the wrong side of the road A taxi driver has been arrested after going viral for driving on the wrong side of the road to avoid traffic in Bryanston. The driver was filmed by a biker who forced him to turn around. WATCH: Durban taxi driver crams 25 commuters into crowded taxi A taxi driver was fined R 5000 after he was found to have 25 passengers in his taxi in Durban last week. WATCH | Wife, colleagues pay tribute to metro cop killed by taxi A Durban metro police officer, who was run over and killed while on duty outside the Galleria Mall in Amanzimtoti, will be laid to rest on Monday morning. WATCH: Taxi collision leaves 1 dead in Ballito One person has been killed following a collision between a taxi and a light vehicle in Ballito on Saturday afternoon. Watch. WATCH: Minibus taxi smashes into Engen garage shop, injuring 2 A minibus taxi crashed into an Engen QuickShop on Saturday evening, after the driver allegedly lost control of the vehicle. He had been filling up his vehicle at the petrol station.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.