Canny Maphanga Lindiwe Sisulu, minister of international relations and cooperation. (Netwerk24) (Photo: Sarel van der Walt) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories International Relations and Cooperation Minister Lindiwe Sisulu has called on the European Union (EU) to give the Zimbabwean government and its people a chance to start afresh. She has called on the EU to urgently lift sanctions ahead of South Africa's bi-national meeting with Zimbabwe in March. "I thought by now sanctions imposed on the Zimbabwe government and its people would be lifted to enable the country to start afresh after all the challenges they have gone through. "We call on the EU, and particularly the United Kingdom, to give the government and the people of Zimbabwe a chance to change their situation by urgently lifting the sanctions," Sisulu said at a briefing after meeting members of the diplomatic corps in Tshwane on Tuesday. The EU imposed sanctions on Zimbabwe in 2000 after former president Robert Mugabe was accused of trampling on human rights, rigging elections and repressing press freedom - accusations that the nonagenarian denied. The sanctions led to devastating economic challenges. The country has an 85% unemployment rate, News24 reported earlier. Sanctions were extended after allegations that President Emmerson Mnangagwa's administration deployed soldiers to fire live ammunition at unarmed protesters, followed by a series of human rights abuses. ALSO READ: EU slams 'disproportionate' use of force in Zimbabwe This came after nationwide protests over a steep increase in fuel prices. A litre of petrol there is the most expensive in the world. "The escalation of violence in Zimbabwe over recent days has been aggravated by the disproportionate use of force by security personnel," European Commission spokeswoman Maja Kocijancic said in a statement. "We expect the government of Zimbabwe to uphold human rights and the rule of law, as enshrined in the constitution, and ensure due legal process for those detained," the statement added. ALSO READ: 'Remove illegal sanctions against Zimbabwe,' Mnangagwa pleads with the West In her statement, Sisulu expressed concern about how the sanctions would affect Zimbabwe's chances at addressing its economic challenges. "Without lifting the sanctions, the government of Zimbabwe will never be able to address its economic challenges and this is compromising the political gains achieved since the coming in the of the new president,” she added. The Department of International Relations and Cooperation also noted all decisions President Mnangangwa had taken. "We remain available to support the Zimbabwe government and its people whenever they need us. We are neighbours and the ties that bind us are very deep," she said. President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to lead a delegation to Zimbabwe's capital, Harare, on March 12, 2019. 24 bodies retrieved from flooded Zimbabwe gold mine Rescue workers retrieve 24 bodies and eight survivors from two flooded gold mines in Zimbabwe where officials fear dozens more illegal miners are still trapped. WATCH: Mnangagwa and and his gangster must leave Zimbabwe alone - Zimbabweans Protesters marched to the Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria on Wednesday in solidarity with their families who've been affected by the total shutdown in Zimbabwe 23 feared dead in flood at disused Zimbabwe gold mine At least 23 illegal gold miners are feared dead in Zimbabwe after two disused shafts flooded in a mining town 145 kilometres (90 miles) south-west of the capital Harare. Handmade Zimbabwe shoes an unlikely global hit An unassuming one-room shoe factory in Bulawayo, Zimbabwe is quite literally defying the economic odds. Founded in 1994, the Courteney boot company has become a global niche brand in hand-made footwear. Despite a downward-spiralling Zimbabwean eco... Zimbabwe’s only commuter train provides key economic lifeline Chugging through townships, maize fields and scrubland as the sun rises, Zimbabwe's only commuter train is cheap and reliable -- two qualities that its passengers cherish in a downwards-spiralling economy. South African elections set for May 8: president South Africa will go to polls on May 8, President Cyril Ramaphosa announces as he set out his stall for the election in a state-of-the-nation address focused on reviving the economy. Prince Harry more aware of environmental issues as fatherhood looms Speaking at the Commonwealth Youth roundtable at Lancaster House the Duke of Sussex said that as someone who's about to become a father, he is acutely aware of our shared responsibility to make this world more resilient. At dawn, a township road in Zimbabwe turns into a fitness club At dawn, a township road crossing over a railway track outside Bulawayo, Zimbabwe, turns into a impromptu fitness 'club'. The 'club' has no name, members or structure, but it is one of the only safe spaces to have fun and get fit. Looting deals Zimbabwe's businesses another blow Shops in Zimbabwe have been hit by looting during violent economic protests. The country is suffering from a major fuel and cash shortage. Zimbabwe army blames brutality on impostors The army in Zimbabwe says "bogus elements" are responsible for beating and killing civilians - rather than the security forces. The country is in the midst of protests over massive fuel price rises. Zimbabwean opposition attends funeral of protest victim Zimbabwe's opposition leader Nelson Chamisa attends the funeral of one of the victims of deadly protests over fuel price hikes. Internet blacked out in Zimbabwe amid crackdown Zimbabwe was under an internet blackout on Friday after authorities extended a communications ban to cover emails. Meanwhile, the United Nations is urging an end to a security crackdown on civilians triggered by days of deadly protests. Saskia O'Dono Zimbabwe: Help for Africa's wild dogs Wild dogs are among the most endangered carnivores in Africa, with only several thousand left. The Save Valley Conservancy in southeastern Zimbabwe is one of the last places they can roam freely. Zimbabwe activist Mawarire back in court Zimbabwean activist Evan Mawarire is back in court for a second day where to face charges of subverting the Zimbabwe government. Mawarire is accused of subverting a constitutional government and incitement to commit violence by posting videos on s... Zimbabwe activist in court for 'subversion' after protests Zimbabwean activist Evan Mawarire has appeared in court in Harare to face subversion charges as authorities crack down on anti-government protests in which doctors say 68 people suffered gunshot wounds. Zimbabweans arrested for fuel protests appear in court About 70 people arrested for protesting fuel price increases in Zimbabwe three days ago arrive at Harare Magistrate’s Court. The nationwide protests were triggered by President Emmerson Mnangagwa’s announcement that fuel prices were doubling - res... Zimbabwiërs betoog in SA Zimbabwiërs in Suid-Afrika betoog voor die konsulaat in Bedfordview,  Gauteng. Pres. Emmerson Mnangagwa het aangekondig dat die petrolprys in Zimbabwe met sowat 150% verhoog is. Video: Verskaf | Foto: Felix Dlangamandla Liam Fox says no Brexit would be a betrayal Liam Fox says no Brexit would be a betrayal of the British electorate. Zimbabwean police arrest activist pastor as fuel protests enter third day Armed Zimbabwean police arrested a political activist at his home on Wednesday (January 16), his lawyer said, the third day of protests against fuel price hikes as businesses and schools stayed closed and networks enforced a government internet shutd 'Ons is reg om na Zim te marsjeer' Betogers maak stem dik buite Zimbabwe se ambassade in Pretoria in solidariteit met Zimbabwiese burgers wat onder weermag- en polisiegeweld gebuk gaan en omdat die regering die sosiale media in die land afgesny het. Video: Deaan Vivier Police detain leading Zimbabwe activist after protests Leading Zimbabwean activist Evan Mawarire is detained by police, taken from his house in a widening crackdown after anti-government protests. To go to work - or to stay home? In Zimbabwe and Gambia, there are more women in the workforce than men. In industrialized countries like Germany, it's not unusual for women with children to be housewives. Cristina Cubas wonders if German policy deliberately keeps women in the home. Zimbabwe protests after a 150 percent fuel price increase People in Zimbabwe took to the streets in the main cities of Harare and Bulawayo to protest a massive fuel price hike announced by the government. #Zimbabwe #protest #fuel Zimbabwe: streets of Harare empty after deadly demonstrations The streets of Zimbabwe's capital, Harare, are deserted after demonstrations against a government hike in fuel prices turned violent. Fury as Zimbabwe doubles fuel prices Protesters took to the streets of the capital over the government's sudden fuel price increase. Fuel price hike sparks protests in Zimbabwe Police have used teargas as anger over a fuel price hike in Zimbabwe, and over the wider economic crisis, spilled onto the streets. Fuel hike sparks protests in Zimbabwe Demonstrations erupt in the Zimbabwean capital of Harare to protest against the sharp rise in fuel prices ordered by the government, in the midst of a severe economic crisis. David Warner 'suggested' ball-tampering - Cameron Bancroft Cameron Bancroft has revealed David Warner was the one to suggest he should tamper with the ball during Australia's notorious Test match in South Africa that saw him handed a nine-month ban. Bancroft's attempt to manipulate the ball in Cape Town w... South African musician performs during brain surgery A musician from South Africa played the guitar during brain surgery. Known as an awake craniotomy, the surgery is common practice to avoid affecting vital brain functions such as movement, vision and speech.
#SouthAfrica #BrainSurgery #AwakeCranio... WATCH: Protesters to Ramaphosa: Give us the money you give to the buffalo The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) and other trade unions took to the streets in Cape Town on Thursday to protest against police brutality and low wages. Zimbabwe's ruling ZANU-PF part holds annual conference Zimbabwe's ruling ZANU-PF part holds annual conference  in Esigodini with a speech from President Emmerson Mnangagwa. Mngxitama volhard met sy standpunt om wit mense dood te maak. Andile Mngxitama sê hy het reeds met militêre veterane van Zimbabwe gepraat en dat hulle ingestem het om lede van BLF op te lei. Lithium Consolidated (ASX:LI3) hard rock lithium focus 05 Dec 2018 - Lithium Consolidated Limited (ASX:LI3) CEO, Shanthar Pathmanathan talks about the company's focus on hard rock lithium in Zimbabwe and Mozambique and plans to start small scale mining in 2019. Zimbabwe opposition party demonstration draws thousands Thousands of anti-government demonstrators march through Harare in the first rally since a deadly crackdown on an election protest in August. Many protestor showed their support for the MDC (Movement for Democratic Change) party leader Nelson Cham... Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. Zimbabweans reflect one year after Mugabe resignation As the country prepares to mark one year since then-president Robert Mugabe stepped down, Zimbabweans reflect on the expectations they had as the nonagenarian strongman's 37-year hold on power came to end, but say the change they hoped for has not... Lives at risk as drug prices soar in crisis-hit Zimbabwe Since starting treatment five years ago, 50-year-old Alice Chenyika kept her blood pressure under control by adhering to doctors' strict instructions to take two daily doses of nifedipine. Now Zimbabwe's worsening economic crisis has pushed prices... Zimbabwe bus gas blast kills at least 42 At least 42 passengers die in Zimbabwe after a suspected gas cylinder explosion on a bus. The vehicle was travelling from Zvishavane to the Beitbridge crossing via the town of Filabusi when the explosion happened. WATCH: Ramaphosa calls on EU to lift sanctions still in place against Zimbabwe Zimbabwe was on the agenda in talks President Cyril Ramaphosa had with European Union (EU) leaders on Thursday. Miley Cyrus is in Cape Town, South Africa Miley Cyrus was spotted shopping in Cape Town, South Africa. The Wonder of Rwanda Kigali is joining the ranks of start-up cities in Africa alongside Lagos, Nairobi and Cape Town. A new start-up center has just opened there. What are a South African? Cape Town-based Wine Flies in South Africa is offering a new tour that dives into what makes up the identity of a South African through history, heritage and cuisine. WATCH: Eyewitness account of Zimbabwe attack August 1 Zim massacre… Horrors from the frontline: On August 01, 2018, my life changed entirely in ways I had not imagined when I woke up that day. A part of me died, while a new me was born out of the horrors I filmed, right from the frontline. Village in the city tries to save Zimbabwe traditions Children entering a hut in a suburb of Zimbabwe's capital gaze in wonder at objects foreign to them -- ancient farm tools, pottery, even the grass roof and reed mats on which they are asked to sit. A bespectacled elderly woman claps her hands to g... How Park Bench Grannies Are Tackling Depression More than 300 million people suffer from depression globally. Could this groundbreaking mental health programme in Zimbabwe be a solution for the rest of the world? The spirit medium that inspired Mugabe Nehanda Nyakasikana led the fight against British colonisers in Zimbabwe in the 19th Century. Turmoil in Zimbabwe as new tax forces rush on goods The effects of a new tax on money transfers is taking hold in Zimbabwe. The new levy imposed last week has been met by public outcry. Finance minister Mthuli Ncube said last week the 2 percent tax would be used for roads and the health and educati... WATCH: Temperatures to increase after parts of SA experience heavy rain and snowfall South Africans in eastern regions of the country were forced to pack away their shorts and sandals because of icy temperatures. Watch the video above to see snowy scenes across South Africa.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.