Pieter du Toit Dennis Bloem. (Luluma Zenzile, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cope spokesperson and former ANC Member of Parliament Dennis Bloem on Friday laid bare Parliament's inability to provide proper oversight of the corruption-plagued Department of Correctional Services. He also told the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture, led by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, how the ANC was acutely aware of many MPs' concerns about the department's arrangements and deals with controversial service provider Bosasa, but did nothing. His testimony was delivered shortly after the marathon examination by the commission of allegations by former Bosasa executive Angelo Agrizzi, who told Zondo how Bosasa scored hundreds of millions of rand by bribing officials, including ministers and senior government functionaries. READ: Bosasa scored more than R12bn in state contracts - report Bosasa and a subsidiary, Sondolo IT, scored tenders worth hundreds of millions of rands from the department, often awarded without proper procedure. They also did not provide the services they tendered for and simply "took the money", Bloem said. It was "havoc" in correctional services, as recommendations from the public accounts committee and the auditor general were ignored, and there was "no control and no (financial) discipline", he said. Bloem, time and again, told advocate Paul Pretorius, the commission's evidence leader, how he had raised concerns about Bosasa's numerous contracts with correctional services in the committee, inside the ANC's parliamentary caucus and with party office bearers, including then speaker Max Sisulu. And time and again, his answer to Pretorius' question was that "nothing" was ever done. 'We mustn't treat this comrade like that' In fact, when his questions became incessant and increasingly urgent, he was reprimanded by then ANC chief whip in Parliament Mbulelo Goniwe and told that he should toe the line. Goniwe seemingly also threatened him with losing his parliamentary seat, saying Bloem should remember that he was a "deployee of the ANC". Bloem said it was clear that, as an MP, he wasn't his "own boss", but rather the party was. His recollections are reminiscent of former ANC MP Andrew Feinstein's thwarted efforts to ensure that Parliament provide proper oversight of the controversial arms deal in the early 2000s. Feinstein resigned from the legislature after his attempts were shut down and smothered. Bloem also told Zondo how then minister of correctional services, Ngconde Balfour, had attempted to dissuade him from scrutinising the department and Bosasa. "He told me: 'Comrade, this comrade (then commissioner of correctional services Linda Mti) is an experienced comrade. We mustn't treat this comrade like that…'" Balfour, he said, "was very protective of Mti" and whenever MPs started asking difficult questions of him and Patrick Gillingham during appearances in Parliament, he would answer the questions himself. 'Nobody did a thing' The former ANC MP, who later served as chairperson of Parliament's Portfolio Committee on Correctional Services, raised issues around irregularities at the department inside the the ANC's study group (that consists of ANC MPs serving on the committee and includes the minister) and with the chairperson of the ANC's parliamentary caucus (Vytjie Mentor, who also delivered testimony to the commission). When questioned by Pretorius about the outcomes of his engagements with the party leadership in Parliament, Bloem replied: "Nothing, nobody did a thing." What happened was not part of the ANC's culture, personal enrichment was not tradition, it wasn't the ANC of Mandela, it was always about the people, Bloem says. @TeamNews24 There were also attempts to coerce Kgalema Motlanthe, who as deputy president at the time was in charge of "deployments", to have Bloem removed. Motlanthe apparently refused, saying that Bloem was doing what was expected of an MP. Zondo and Pretorius emphasised the role of Parliament in a constitutional democracy, asking Bloem to explain the role of parliamentary committees in ensuring that government departments and other state entities planned and spend their budget prudently, and within the limits of governing legislation. Bloem told the commission that committees have the authority to request any piece of information, including details of tenders and contracts, and can ask anyone to appear before them. Broke down in tears Bloem agreed when Pretorius said: "A multiparty committee is therefore a central instrument in our democracy." At one stage Bloem broke down in tears when he asked the commission to investigate the "sudden and unexplained" death of former correctional services director general Vernie Petersen. Bloem is breaking up in the witness stand. He is crying. He says the commission must investigate the death of Vernie Petersen. He was against Bosasa, and he died suddenly and without cause. But he was against corruption. @TeamNews24 He said Petersen had tried to clean up the department and "hated" corruption, but that he was suddenly moved to the Department of Sport and Recreation after only a year with the correctional services department. FROM OUR ARCHIVES: Petersen's death shocks Mbalula Zondo, who seemed particularly taken aback by Bloem's testimony, said: "There's no reason why this country cannot arrive at a place where corruption is so small that we can say we live in a corruption-free country." He asked other MPs to come forward and explain what the impact of state capture was on the legislature. The commission resumes on Tuesday. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  LISTEN: 'That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. LISTEN: Bosasa bosses Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma [WITH SUBTITLES] In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. LISTEN: Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. WATCH: Agrizzi details unfair advantage given to Bosasa to secure 'one of the biggest' tenders Former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi is on the stand for the fifth day at the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry - Agrizzi to implicate more officials Former Bosasa chief operating officer Angelo Agrizzi will be back on the witness stand for a fifth day and more officials are expected to be implicated in his testimony. WATCH: Agrizzi claims he packed R50 000 a month for Minister Mokonyane Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi told the Zondo Commission that the company catered for ANC rallies and paid for the ruling party's birthday cake. Agrizzi was testifying about the relationship between Bosasa and Cabinet minister Nomvula Mokonyana WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry: Agrizzi continues his testimony, who will be implicated? Angelo Agrizzi has revealed more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Agrizzi, Watson paid regular visits to Mokonyane's house, along with R50 000 #StateCaptureInquiry | Angelo Agrizzi continues to reveal more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Bosasa and #StateCapture | Here's what you need to know... Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson emerges as 'kingpin of bribes' Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson has emerged as the absolute kingpin in the Bosasa empire of bribes, intimidation and cold hard cash. WATCH: Former Bossasa COO unpacks the bribes Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi on Thursday detailed the money trail allegedly used for bribing state entities. WATCH | 'Every single contract was tainted with bribes' - Agrizzi testifies #StateCaptureInquiry The second day of testimony by former Bosasa top boss Angelo Agrizzi in the commission of inquiry into state capture continues. ANALYSIS | #StateCaptureInquiry: Unpacking Agrizzi's testimony Watch as News24 investigative journalist Kyle Cowen and journalist Jeanette Chabalala unpack former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi's revelations at the state capture commission. WATCH: Bosasa spent between 'R4m and R6m a month' in cash bribes - Agrizzi at #StateCaptureInquiry Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi continues to testify at state capture inquiry - Day 2 The second day of testimony by former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi at the commission of inquiry into state capture is set to be far more explosive and damning for the ruling ANC party and his former colleagues. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi testifies at state capture inquiry The Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture resumed on Wednesday with former Bosasa employee Angelo Agrizzi on the witness stand. WATCH: 'Give me a tender' - sings satirical 'Elvis' on Bosasa scandal The much-talked about Bosasa scandal has gripped South Africa over the past week since former chief-operating officer Angelo Agrizzi blew the whistle on bribery and corruption.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.