Canny Maphanga Nomgcobo Jiba. (Lisa Hnatowicz/Foto24, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The legal team representing suspended deputy National Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions (NDPP) Nomgcobo Jiba says she considers herself an expert on racketeering cases. "Would you say that advocate Jiba doesn't know what racketeering offences involve?" advocate Thabani Masuku, SC, asked Deputy NDPP Willie Hofmeyr during cross-examination at the Mokgoro inquiry in Centurion on Friday. "There is a difference between those who prosecute matters before a judge and those who know the law. I did not say she doesn't know racketeering legislation, but there is a difference," Hofmeyr responded. The Mokgoro Inquiry is tasked with establishing whether Jiba and suspended special director of public prosecutions Lawrence Mrwebi are fit to hold office. Masuku, on behalf of Jiba, proceeded to assure the witness that "Jiba actually considers herself an expert on the field. She manages a team of people who prosecute racketeering cases". Hofmeyr submitted that if Jiba considered herself an expert, he could not contradict that. "I think generally, my experience is that people who have prosecuted a racketeering case are the experts. "Those of us who look at the dockets, see the evidence but have not stood up before a judge and argued, I would not call that an expert. You become an expert when you do the work," he added. ALSO READ: 'Normal' racketeering criteria not met in Booysen case - Mokgoro inquiry hears This comes after Hofmeyr alleged on Friday morning that the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) conceded that it had no evidence against former KwaZulu-Natal Hawks head Johan Booysen. This is according to exco meeting minutes relating to the Booysen matter, which were furnished to evidence leader, advocate Nazreen Bawa, SC. "Do you persist that  there was a concession made by the prosecution team in meetings that there was no evidence against Booysen?" Masuku asked. "My personal knowledge is that this is reflected in the minutes of the exco meetings and if it is wrongly reflected, it should be corrected," Hofmeyr responded. Booysen was charged in August 2012 with managing and participating an "enterprise" through a pattern of racketeering activity, News24 previously reported. In addition, the former Hawks head was also accused of two murders, the unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition, as well as defeating the ends of justice. The State, however, later withdrew the charges against Booysen after Judge Trevor Gorven found that the charges did not meet the barest minimum requirements. ALSO READ: Mokgoro inquiry: Booysen maintains that Jiba used insufficient evidence to charge him The inquiry resumes on Monday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.