Buks Viljoen, Correspondent Residents of Skaapruiz settlement near Ermelo struggle to get water (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories For almost four decades, the residents of the Skaapruiz settlement near Ermelo have struggled to get water from their municipality. Their only stable source of water is a small pond and a stream, which they share with their cattle. They also don't have access to toilet facilities and have to use the nearby bushes when nature calls. Skaapruiz was established in 1979, when a mining company donated the land to the community. The community built 130 mud houses. No development Despite numerous promises from the Msukaligwa municipality in Ermelo to supply piped water, there has been no development in the area. DA Mpumalanga leader Jane Sithole has called on the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) to do an investigation into all the communities which have been without water for many years. "It is disgusting to see how this community survives and was left behind without the basic human rights of having potable water. Also read: Watch rising water usage - City of Cape Town urges residents "I was informed that there are regularly outbreaks of illnesses, such as stomach problems, due to the dirty water." At Sheepmore, about 40km from Ermelo, there are two massive reservoirs with a complete bulk reticulation system, but without any water. These reservoirs were erected around 2000, but were never connected to a bulk water supply pipe, says Sithole. Dry boreholes Mandla Zwane, spokesperson for the Msukaligwa municipality, said the water problems at Skaapruiz were due to boreholes drying up, as a result of mining activities. The council uses a water tanker to supply water to the community. Regarding the empty reservoirs in Sheepmoor, Zwane said there was a project currently on the go to connect bulk water supply to the system. "This will be completed by end June," he promised. On the issue of toilets at Skaapruiz, Zwane said the council would soon roll out a new toilet system. "A new toilet, called a 'convertible waterborne system' is being tested. As soon as it is proven successful, it will be rolled out to all farming communities."  WATCH: New toilet uses 2 litres of water instead of the average 11 litres A new toilet that uses only 2 litres of water instead of the average 11 litres could be a new fixture in South African homes. WATCH: Roaring trade for some small businesses amidst load shedding gloom Last Sunday Eskom implemented load shedding for the first time since December 2019. While this has resulted in major inconvenience and loss of income for ordinary South Africans and most businesses, some are seeing a sharp increase in trade as a dire WATCH: Three accused of murdering Mihalik appear in court The three men accused of Pete Mihalik's murder - Vuyile Maliti, Sinozokohle Biyela and Nkosinathi Khumalo - appear in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Friday 15 February 2019. WATCH: Site conditions 'really bad' as Medupi spews ash Clouds of ash could be seen above the Medupi plant in Limpopo on Thursday. WATCH: Buses burned, windows shattered in CPUT violence Vandals destroyed two buses and damaged buildings at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology's Bellville campus in the early hours of Wednesday morning. WATCH: Bakkie goes swimming while trying to pull boat out of the water in Cape Town A man who was pulling a boat out of the water at the Oceana Power Boat Club in Granger Bay, Cape Town, got more than he bargained for at the weekend when his vehicle also had to be towed out of the water. NATIONWIDE STRIKE: Cosatu protests Eskom restructuring and job loses Cosatu members took to the streets on Wednesday after the trade union federation announced a nationwide strike. WATCH: ANC hails 'selfless leader' Mama Kotane as she celebrates 107 years ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule on Tuesday hailed stalwart Mama Rebecca Kotane at her 107th birthday celebration in Soweto. WATCH: Brazen robbery in Hillbrow leaves two security officers dead Two security officers were shot and killed during a robbery in Hillbrow on Monday night.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.