Correspondent WATCH: Hundreds gather for emotional night vigil at Hoërskool Driehoek Hundreds of people gathered at Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark for an emotional night vigil, after a concrete slab collapsed at the school, killing three children and seriously injuring 25 others. Cheverné Duvenhage, 13. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories One of the pupils who was severely injured during the structural collapse at Hoërskool Driehoek on February 1 suffered a setback on Sunday, Netwerk24 reported. According to that publication, Grade 8 pupil Cheverné Duvenhage, 13, had to be sedated and connected to a respirator after having heart palpitations. On Friday, she could reportedly breathe unassisted. Cheverné is being treated in the Netcare Union Hospital in Alberton. According to Netwerk24, she could drink water unassisted on Friday after being taken off the respirator. According to Vaalweekblad, Cheverné fractured a hip in the incident. Her liver and stomach wall were torn and she sustained head injuries. She also suffered internal bleeding, which has since been stopped. Her life is reportedly hanging by a thread. Altogether, 14 pupils are still recovering in hospital from various injuries. WATCH: Grandmother of injured Hoërskool Driehoek describes shock of walkway collapse A grandmother , whose child attends Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark, was injured in an accident on Friday, Pupils of Hoërskool Driehoek were expected to return to school on Monday as parts of the school building have been declared safe. With the tragedy at the school still very fresh in everyone's minds, schooling would resume slowly with reintegration efforts and counselling, the Gauteng education department said. Memorial service to be held Tents had been erected to temporarily accommodate pupils. Earlier this month a concrete slab above a corridor linking two blocks of buildings came crashing down on 26 pupils at the Vanderbijlpark school. Roydon Olckers, Jandré Steyn and Marli Currie died on the scene. A fourth pupil, Marnus Nagel, later succumbed to his injuries in hospital. The four were buried last week. READ: Tears and hugs at Hoërskool Driehoek pupil's funeral Education spokesperson Steve Mabona confirmed that a memorial service for the four would be held at the Kompas Gemeente church in Vanderbijlpark at 15:00. Pupils, parents and supporters have left T-shirts, flags, pictures and wreaths at the school fence in remembrance of the deceased. The education department appointed a team of structural engineers to conduct an analysis of the premises before allowing pupils back. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter WATCH: SA Human Rights Commission reacts to the Hoërskool Driehoek tragedy The SA Human Rights Commission will launch a probe into a walkway collapse at a high school in Vanderbijlpark, that killed four children last week. Genoa starts demolishing disaster bridge six months on Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte visits the site of the Morandi bridge in Genoa, Italy, which is being demolished after its collapse nearly six months ago left scores dead and dozens injured. Italian PM Conte arrives at Morandi bridge demolition site Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte arrives at the site of the Morandi bridge in Genoa, Italy, which is being demolished after its collapse nearly six months ago left 43 people dead and dozens injured. Genoa starts demolishing disaster bridge six months on Crews begin the demolition of the Morandi motorway bridge in Genoa, Italy, almost six months after its collapse left 43 people dead and dozens injured. Death toll reaches 10 in Turkey building collapse Search teams in Istanbul, Turkey recovered a total of seven bodies from the rubble of a collapsed apartment building, raising the death toll to 10. Loss weighs heavy six months after Genoa bridge collapse Reconstruction work on Italy's Morandi bridge is expected to start on Friday (February 8) after its collapse last August. Saskia O'Donoghue reports Istanbul apartment block collapse: Hunt for survivors after two killed A girl, five, was pulled alive from the rubble on Thursday morning. CCTV video shows deadly building collapse in Turkey At least one person has been killed after an eight-story residential building collapsed in Istanbul on Wednesday. State of emergency declared in parts of Bosnia amid severe flooding A state of emergency has been declared in parts of Bosnia as severe flooding sweeps through the country New video captures moment of deadly dam collapse in Brazil At least 115 people dead and around 250 missing in what could be the country's deadliest mine disaster.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.