Sarah Evans Former
Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille will lead Good's fight for the Western Cape,
the party announced on Sunday. Launched by De Lille in December 2018, Good
unveiled its manifesto, "The GOOD Plan to Fix South Africa (#FIXSA)" last
week. "We are excited by the
response we have had from South Africans across the country and we have
volunteers active, on the ground, in all nine provinces building this movement,"
said Good spokesperson Brett Herron. He said the manifesto was based
on three policy papers currently being finalised, following Good's policy
conference three weeks ago, which will be published in the coming days. Herron
said the movement had spent the past few weeks assessing candidates for the
positions of provincial premiers. 'It's time for a new political order' - De Lille announces new political party Former Cape Town mayor and DA member Patricia de Lille says she is ready to serve her country under a new political movement. "Provincial Coordinating
Committees, in each province, were requested to submit nominations to the
national leadership," said Herron. The selection process for four of
the provinces – the Western Cape, Northern Cape, Gauteng and North West – was
concluded. In the case of the Western Cape, the
Provincial Coordinating Committee submitted one, unanimous, nomination. He said that the nine nominees
went through a "competitive selection process", which included using
an assessment tool, designed for Good by an independent industrial
psychologist. Philanthropist, artist, NGO
founder among nominees The National Leadership Committee
met on Friday evening to deliberate on the outcome of that process, he said. In the Western Cape, De Lille was
the only candidate, and her nomination by the Provincial Coordinating Committee
was unanimous, said Herron. The North West province nominated
philanthropist and businesswoman Vivien Law, who runs a farming business and
works with rural communities. Upington-born artist and
investigator, Leonard McKay, was the Northern Cape's nominee, while former
councillor-turned-NGO founder, Lehlonolo Mtshali, was the nominee for Gauteng. Mtshali
co-founded the Township Business Association, which helps young businesses to
access training and funding. "The process to select premier
candidates for the remaining five provinces is still under way. The Good
leaders selected as the premier candidates in those provinces will be announced
when the selection process has concluded," said Herron. Meanwhile, the process for the
selection of candidates to Parliament and the provincial legislatures has been
opened, he said. Good's Western Cape campaign
launch takes place on Saturday, February 16, with launches in Gauteng, North
West and the Northern Cape to follow.  WATCH: 'Mama tuk-tuk' finds solace in her three-wheeled career Prossy Namujju, popularly known as Mama tuk-tuk, moved to South Africa in 2016 and now provides for her four children as a tuk-tuk driver in Johannesburg. Man targeted in racist rant on Cape Town, South Africa, bus opens criminal case A man has opened a case of crimen injuria after becoming the target of a racist rant on a bus to central Cape Town on Monday morning. Patricia de Lille on her lowest time in her politics career The past 18 months have seen battle royal in the DA in Cape Town, which reached a turning point on Wednesday when Patricia de Lille resigned as mayor and DA member amid a criminal investigation against her. WATCH: 'We have nothing' - Vredenburg residents demand better service delivery On Tuesday, residents of Vredenburg in the Western Cape – who have had enough of living in what they described as a "dump" – took to the streets with sjamboks, sticks and knobkieries to demand better service delivery. WATCH: Western Cape firefighters end gruelling day with uplifting song A group of firefighters returned to their base at the Crassula hall in Betty's Bay on Friday, with song and dance. WATCH: #WesternCapeShutdown: Over 250 people march to Parliament against gang violence Over 200 people marched from Keizergracht to Parliament and the Western Cape government provincial offices as part of the #WesternCapeShutdown against gang violence on Wednesday morning. WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. WATCH: Fire rages through Paarl mountains Firefighters are battling a fire raging through the mountains in Paarl, Western Cape. Vedanta will invest Rs 8500 Cr more in South Africa Sources tell BTVI that London-based Vedanta will invest Rs 8500 crore more in South Africa. BTVI has also learnt that Vedanta chairman Anil Agarwal, who was part of the South African President Cyril Ramaphosa’s delegation for India’s Republic Day ... WATCH: 'Small meteor' lights up Cape night sky Social media was ablaze with talk about a meteor that lit up the Western Cape sky in loud, fiery fashion on Wednesday. 
One lucky farmer managed to capture the meteor on CCTV camera. WATCH: Political party 'slaughters' watermelon on Cape beach in video stunt A small political party has staged a mock sacrifice of a watermelon on a Cape Town beach in response to the slaughter of a sheep in December. WATCH: Zille breaks ground on R3bn mixed-income residential project Western Cape Premier Helen Zille said the "pioneering" housing project expected at the site of the derelict old Conradie Hospital in Cape Town could "make or break" the current housing system. WATCH:  Fire rages out of control near Hermanus Firefighters from the Overstrand Municipality have spent the last 24 hours fighting an out of control fire about 10km from Hermanus in the Western Cape. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. WATCH: Woman completes epic drive from Scotland to Cape Town in a 1958 Morris Minor Laura Morrison has travelled from Scotland to South Africa in1958 Morris Minor to raise funds for cancer research.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.