Alex Mitchley Former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor has admitted that she may have incorrectly identified a man she was introduced to by Duduzane Zuma as Fana Hlongwane (Conrad Bornman, Gallo Images, Rapport, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor is set to return to the Zondo Commission of Inquiry into allegations of state capture on Monday and will be the first witness to be cross examined. According to a statement by the commission, Mentor will return to the witness stand to complete her evidence and be cross-examined by those who were granted leave to do so. Duduzane Zuma, son to former president Jacob Zuma, as well as businessman Fana Hlongwane will be cross-examining Mentor. Two of the Gupta brothers also applied to question Mentor, but were turned down by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo who is chairing the inquiry. The decision was made on the basis that they refused to testify in South Africa, wanting to appear before the commission remotely. LISTEN: Bosasa bosses Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma [WITH SUBTITLES] In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. READ: Mentor describes her encounter with Zuma at Gupta's Saxonwold home Mentor testified before the commission in August last year where she claims that she was offered the ministerial position of public enterprises by the Guptas at their Saxonworld compound. Mentor told the commission that Ajay Gupta had offered her the post if she, in turn, would drop the SAA Johannesburg to Mumbai route so a Gupta-linked company, Jet Airways, could benefit. She also claimed that she was introduced to one of the Gupta brothers by Duduzane Zuma and that he was in the Gupta compound when she had the meeting with Ajay. Previously, Mentor made a U-turn at the commission after she admitted that she may have incorrectly identified a man she was introduced to by Duduzane Zuma as Fana Hlongwane. READ: #StateCaptureInquiry: Vytjie Mentor does an about turn on Fana Hlongwane News24 reported that in a letter to the commission, Mentor admitted that she made an error in identifying Hlongwane.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.