Pelane Phakgadi (File, Nompilo Kunene) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A senior Unisa staffer has had his suspension lifted after a group of his colleagues protested outside the institution's main campus in Pretoria on Friday. Unisa spokesperson Martin Ramotshela confirmed to News24 that the suspension had been withdrawn, but the probe will still continue. "The investigation will still continue ... the matter is an internal matter and the details are confidential," Ramotshela added. He said that operations would resume on Monday, and assured that the situation would be "restored to normality". The protests by the members of the registrations division left students with no one to assist them, but Ramotshela said there were no major disruptions. "There were no disruptions for registrations, while also taking note that registrations closed on Thursday," Ramotshela added. The protest comes just a week after a student protest at the same institution, which prompted the university to extended its registration deadline for undergraduate programmes to the end of January.    WATCH: Pretoria West streets gridlocked as residents burn tyres and block roads Motorists and commuters have been warned to avoid several parts of Pretoria West on Thursday owing to protest action that started in the early hours of the morning. WATCH: Anti-racism protest shuts down Bronkhorstspruit During a protest against racism in Bronkhorstspruit on Tuesday, where the entire central business district of the small town was shut down, the ANC Youth League in Tshwane have made a call expropriate land belonging to racist farmers. WATCH: Police use stun grenades to disperse picketing MyCiti protesters Police have fired stun grenades at MyCiti bus drivers on strike in the Cape Town CBD. WATCH: 'We have nothing' - Vredenburg residents demand better service delivery On Tuesday, residents of Vredenburg in the Western Cape – who have had enough of living in what they described as a "dump" – took to the streets with sjamboks, sticks and knobkieries to demand better service delivery. WATCH: Community protests over housing in Mariannridge, Durban Mariannridge residents blockaded roads with burning tires and tree logs during a protest over housing in the area on Tuesday. WATCH. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. WATCH: Truck set alight during protest in Isando A truck was set alight allegedly by protesting workers in the plastics sector in Isando, east of Johannesburg on Thursday. WATCH: Vehicles set alight during apparent housing protest in Nyanga Members of the Ocean View community in Cape Town took to the streets on Thursday to voice their frustrations at shootings and other violence in the area.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.