Kaveel Singh (File, Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The way forward for the EFF-led student leadership at Durban University of Technology is yet to be decided after a meeting with management was apparently cancelled on Thursday. "They promised to meet with us this morning, but it was cancelled. We are disappointed by this because we would like a way forward at the soonest," student representative council (SRC) president Sesethu Godlimpi told News24 outside DUT. The university was much calmer on Thursday and there was a heavy police presence overseeing much of the campuses in Durban. Students and religious leaders gathered in the morning to pray following the death of third-year student Mlungisi Madonsela who was allegedly shot by a security guard. However, DUT spokesperson Alan Khan said management was "working tirelessly around the clock to try and resolve the current state of affairs at the institution," adding that they would meet with the SRC at some stage on Thursday. "The management team will be meeting the SRC today to discuss the current situation and to find a way forward." Godlimpi said that while the situation was calm, students could only decide on a way forward after meeting management. "We need to know what they are saying to us now. But still, we have sadly not met with them." He said the SRC wanted the university to play an active role in sending off Madonsela. "We want the university to take full responsibility for the funeral. They have not apologised to us or come to us as the SRC yet." He also said they still hoped for a productive way forward. "Since we have been shut down for a few days, we are expecting positive results when we open again. If they do not do so, our role is to call a mass meeting with students. However, we cannot confirm anything until they communicate with us." Khan said that access to all their campuses and designated registration venues remained restricted due to the temporary closure. "University management would like to encourage students who have not yet registered to utilise the university's online registration system, which is accessible via the DUT's website." He urged staff and students to keep checking their emails and the DUT website for updates. Meanwhile, police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said cases against students who were part of the fatal clash on Tuesday had been struck off the court roll.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.