Tammy Petersen Two people were killed when a bus collided with a car near White River, Mpumalanga. (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A motorist and a 12-year-old passenger were killed when a car collided with a bus on the R538 Numbi Road just past White River in Mpumalanga on Saturday morning, the provincial community safety authority confirmed. Spokesperson Moeti Mmusi confirmed that the crash took place at about 07:20 when it appeared that the driver of the car lost control of the vehicle and crashed into the side of the bus. This resulted in the bus driver losing control and landing in a ditch along the R38. Two people were killed when a bus collided with a car near White River, Mpumalanga (Supplied) ER24 spokesperson Ineke van Huyssteen said responding paramedics found multiple people on the scene as well as the car further up the road. It had burst into flames. “Upon further assessment, paramedics found that two people inside the vehicle sustained fatal injuries and were declared dead at the scene.” PICS: Daughter of former Springbok killed in horror N2 crash The injured bus occupants were taken to Rob Ferreira and Themba hospitals. Mmusi said 71 people in total had been hurt. Two were serious, while 69 had slight to moderate injuries. Local authorities were on the scene for further investigations. Mmusi said the slippery road as a result of late night and early morning rains may have contributed to the crash. WATCH: Scary dashcam footage shows how two trucks collide head-on in Mpumalanga Two trucks collided head-on and a third was pushed off the road from Bethel to Kriel in Mpumalanga on Friday.

Dashcam footage from one of the trucks showed the chaotic scene, which involved four heavy vehicles taking up two lanes. WATCH: Emergency personnel working to free people trapped under collided trains At least three people have been confirmed dead, while scores of others have been left injured following a train collision at Mountain View station, Pretoria on
Tuesday morning. WATCH: Tshwane mayor visits Pretoria train crash victims' families Tshwane Metro Mayor, Solly Msimanga, visited two families of the deceased from last week's Mountain View train accident.
Msimanga expressed his condolences and offered support with the funeral arrangements. WATCH: Taxi collision leaves 1 dead in Ballito One person has been killed following a collision between a taxi and a light vehicle in Ballito on Saturday afternoon. Watch. WATCH: Limpopo accident leaves 26 dead, among them 2 children Two children are among the 26 people who died in a horror multi-vehicle collision on the N1 in Mookgopong outside Modimolle, Limpopo, on Friday.

Four people survived the crash and were taken to various hospitals for medical treatment. WATCH: Ferrari accident on the N2 Cape Town.mp4 Rion from CF towing  was 1st person on  the scene said the driver lost control when he looked down and the next thing he hit the highway concrete on the N2 Airport turn off. WATCH: Four bus crashes in one day leave 150 injured, two dead in KZN Helicopter footage of a bus that crashed into a home in Tongaat, KwaZulu-Natal has emerged online.

According to the KZN emergency medical services, over 150 people suffered serious to moderate injuries in three other incidents in the province.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.