Tammy Petersen The City of Cape Town’s chief fire officer has slammed a “senseless and unprovoked attack by unreasonable and barbaric community members” after the petrol bombing of the Gugulethu Fire Station. Ian Schnetler said he did not know the reason behind Friday night’s incident. City of Cape Town law enforcement spokesperson Wayne Dyason said two petrol bombs were thrown against the emergency room public entrance resulting in some fire damage. Two windows of the roller door were also broken after being pelted with rocks. (Supplied) The motive for the incident couldn’t be confirmed as the attackers “left the scene without any type of engagement with the authorities”. ALSO READ: Protesters set fire station in Cape Town alight Traumatised crew members have been relocated to the Mitchells Plain fire station until further notice, Schnetler said. “This is really not acceptable and the attack is condemned in the strongest terms. A fire station is there to help people and is not the enemy. This madness must come to an end,” he said. The attack on the fire station is the second in eight months. The station suffered R500 000 in damages after it was set alight in July last year. WATCH:  WATCH: Hout Bay, Cape Town, rioters block roads, torch factory over fisherman's death Protesters in Hangberg, Hout Bay took to the streets on Monday to "fight for their brother" who went missing during an anti-poaching operation at sea. WATCH: Vehicles set alight during apparent housing protest in Nyanga Members of the Ocean View community in Cape Town took to the streets on Thursday to voice their frustrations at shootings and other violence in the area. WATCH: 'We have nothing' - Vredenburg residents demand better service delivery On Tuesday, residents of Vredenburg in the Western Cape – who have had enough of living in what they described as a "dump" – took to the streets with sjamboks, sticks and knobkieries to demand better service delivery. It's time to involve the entire security cluster - Blade Nzimande after latest Cape Town train fire Firefighters have arrived at Cape Town train station to battle yet another train-related blaze after thick, black smoke permeated the air above the station on Tuesday. WATCH: Crowd brutally attacks man armed with paintball gun On Saturday a crowd attacked a man in Seapoint in Cape Town. WATCH: Buses burned, windows shattered in CPUT violence Vandals destroyed two buses and damaged buildings at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology's Bellville campus in the early hours of Wednesday morning. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.