Kamva Somdyala Holy Cross RC Primary on fire. (Rob Beezy, Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Western Cape Education Department (WCED) has received overwhelming response from corporate companies, schools and the community, who offered their assistance to Holy Cross RC Primary School in Zonnebloem. Part of the school buildings, which house Grades R, 4 and 7; a new laboratory and a library which was donated by The Bookery, were destroyed in a devastating fire last week. The roof was severely damaged in the blaze and many windows were broken. On Friday, the school asked the public to open their hearts and wallets to assist with rebuilding efforts and with the replacement of some teaching and learning equipment ravaged in the fire. WATCH: Holy Cross primary in Cape Town on fire Firefighters were called out to Holy Cross RC Primary School in the Cape Town CBD after plumes of smoke were seen emanating from the premises. The Western Cape Education Department's Jessica Shelver said thanks to donations, no more stationery was required. "There has been an overwhelming response from schools, businesses and the general public in donating stationery and school bags to the affected grades," she said. On Friday, Principal Nomthandazo Zweni said Shoprite and Pick n Pay had helped to provide meals for the feeding scheme the children relied on every day. Shelver said on Monday that the district's feeding scheme manager had assisted the school with the supply of food. The department said other schools had offered furniture for the Grade R class, while the principal would requisition tables and chairs for the Grade 7 classroom. Shelver said teaching continued at the school. On Friday, the district deployed counselling services to the school. "Additional counselling to staff and learners, if needed will be accessed either through the district office or the Otto Foundation, [which has] been extremely supportive since the fire." The school could not be reached for comment.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.