Tshidi Madia The Gauteng High Court in Pretoria has ruled that Supra Mahumapelo should return to his office and resume his responsibilities as ANC North West chairperson immediately. This, after Mahumapelo and four others approached the courts on Tuesday on an urgent basis, asking for it to enforce last week's ruling to overturn the ANC national executive committee's (NEC) decision to disband his provincial executive committee (PEC). Last week, Judge Fayeeza Kathree-Setiloane handed down judgment in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg, reinstating the PEC and nullifying the provincial task team, which was established by the NEC as an interim structure. ALSO READ: High Court rules decision to disband ANC's North West PEC was unlawful WATCH: 'We are not fighting the ANC' - Mahumapelo ahead of court appearance Former ANC North West chairperson Supra Mahumapelo addresses supporters before fighting the NEC decision to disband his PEC at the South Gauteng High Court. On Tuesday, the five applicants' legal representatives, advocates Dali Mpofu and Tembeka Ngcukaitobi, told the court the PEC should be reinstated, even if its term of office expires this week, arguing that the ANC's secretary general, Ace Magashule, had put a moratorium on conferences until after the 2019 general elections, which would allow the PEC to complete its work. Kathree-Setiloane, who also heard the matter in Pretoria, directed Magushule to take immediate and direct steps to ensure compliance with court order. "The order pending the application of leave to appeal the order of 6 February is brought into operation." #ANCNW suppose there’s a reason they call him black Jesus pic.twitter.com/XOyYkS88b0 PEC member and first applicant in the matter, Aaron Motshwana, complained that they felt they had no option but to force the ANC NEC – the governing party's highest decision-making body between conferences – to honour the court order. He complained that the PEC was not being allowed space to self-determine, and questioned the ANC's decision to challenge some aspects of Friday's ruling. The ANC, however, has said it accepted that its decision to disband the provincial structure was wrong according to the courts, but said it needed to challenge aspects of Kathree-Setiloane's ruling regarding the NEC's authority. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Jozi launches first ever drive-thru bar, or does it? Curious motorists drove steadily along William Nicol as they gazed at the pop-up style "drive-thru bar" on display in Johannesburg on Wednesday morning. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. WATCH: Premier David Makhura receives letter of demand from coloured communities Residents in Gauteng communities affected by gang violence marched in Johannesburg on Friday to hand over a letter of demand to Gauteng Premier David Makhura. WATCH: 'Total Shutdown Gauteng' hands over letter of demand at JSE Members of the Total Shutdown Gauteng grouping marched on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) on Tuesday, demanding a full audit of coloured representation in listed businesses and a commitment to rectifying the lack of coloured representivity. WATCH: Land can't belong to the people and the state at the same time - ACDP leader The state and the people cannot own the land at the same time, ACDP leader Kenneth Meshoe says. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: Damage to 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard a criminal act – DA The DA has called the damage inflicted on its newly unveiled 'The ANC is Killing Us' billboard in Braamfontein, Johannesburg, a 'criminal act'. WATCH: Dr Esther Mahlangu wows Joburg high schoolers with painting masterclass Multi-award winning South African artist Dr Esther Mahlangu had pupils at the National School of the Arts in Johannesburg flustered but excited when she had them replace their traditional paint brushes with feathers. WATCH: Queuing won't guarantee university admission The University of Johannesburg is urging prospective students to register online Instead of queuing on campus. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma's culpable homicide trial postponed to March The culpable homicide case against Duduzane Zuma was postponed to March 26 in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday. WATCH: JHB high court evacuated after prisoners escape Gauteng police have confirmed that the Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg has been evacuated following the escape of two prisoners on Friday morning. WATCH: Freedom Park residents demonstrate outside Luthuli House Luthuli House in the Johannesburg CBD should brace itself for a "sleepover" if the Gauteng government doesn't address issues raised by landless residents of Freedom Park in the south of the city.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.