Sesona Ngqakamba WATCH: Protesting students bring learning to a standstill at Wits The start of classes and daily administration operations were delayed at the University of the Witwatersrand on Thursday, after the student representative council (SRC) continued with protest action. Hundreds of students at the University of the Witwatersrand were not deterred by the rain on Thursday as they continued their protest outside the Great Hall on the main campus. The student representative council (SRC) shut down all operations at the institution on Wednesday when demonstrators disrupted classes and teaching. There was an anxious moment when students tried to force their way inside the hall as it started to rain and they were met by private security guards. When the guards blocked the crowds from entering, several demonstrators threw stones at them, which led to them calling for back up from police who were nearby. When police intervened the protesters dispersed but later gathered again. Earlier, SRC president Sisanda Aluta Mbolekwa addressed the crowd and told students that the institution's management team was in a meeting and would return to respond to their demands later in the day. READ: Wits closes entrances as student injured in UJ, Wits protests While some students left others stayed behind, saying it was important that they got feedback from management as Friday was the last day for registration. "We need to fight for this because tomorrow (Friday) is the last day of registration, hence we are putting so much pressure. If students can't register by tomorrow it's over for them this year," said Zikhona Maloyi, who was wearing an EFF T-shirt. Maloyi said while she had been lucky to register through the National Student Financial Aid Scheme, and also secure accommodation, many of her friends slept in labs or sought refuge at Park Station nearby. She said the situation regarding fees and accommodation at the institution was frustrating, especially for those students who knew that their parents could not afford to pay for their tuition and accommodation. "When you can't come to school because your parents don't have the money, and you know there is no way they can raise R120 000 to R150 000, it really affects you," Maloyi said. ALSO READ: Wits management investigating scuffle between protesters, private security Second-year electrical engineering student Nimrod Teisho said he was frustrated because he didn't have a place to stay. "Every day I am sleeping in a lab, I don't have accommodation, my funding has not come through and at 08:00 I need to go to class," Teisho said. He added the students would continue protesting but were not going to damage any property. Maloyi said she had been part of the crowd that blocked the university's entrances on Thursday morning. She claimed the police had fired teargas at the protesters. "I was there when they opened fire. It is very terrifying when your own fellow black men open fire on you just because you want an education that they themselves cannot afford for their own children," said Maloyi. By 16:30 operations were at a standstill as students camped outside Solomon Mahlangu House waiting on management to address them. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Mountain blaze breaks out in Camps Bay Firefighters responded to a blaze that erupted in The Glen area of Camps Bay on Thursday afternoon. Watch. WATCH: New video footage from Hoërskool Driehoek tragedy New video footage has emerged, showing the devastation experienced at Hoërskool Driehoek, after a concrete slab fell on pupils on Friday. WATCH: Holy Cross primary in Cape Town on fire Firefighters were called out to Holy Cross RC Primary School in the Cape Town CBD after plumes of smoke were seen emanating from the premises. This scary clip from the new horror flick The Prodigy will have your heart racing This American horror thriller is directed by Nicholas McCarthy and hits South African cinemas this weekend. WATCH: Pet dog dies in Sea Point apartment block blaze A Sea Point apartment was destroyed in a high-rise fire that was put out before it spread to the rest of the building on Wednesday. WATCH: Magistrate browses on phone as stenographer sleeps Goodwood Magistrate Sean Lea was secretly filmed by a person in court, while he was casually scrolling through his smartphone. WATCH: Bushiri 'a true man of god' - supporters Hundreds of devoted supporters of embattled self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri gathered outside court again on Wednesday to show their support. Watch. Whistleblowers should still come forward says Hawks after Bosasa arrests ormer Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi, former correctional services CFO Patrick Gillingham, and Bosasa official Andries van Tonder, on Wednesday briefly appeared in the dock at the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.