Ntwaagae Seleka Lenasia protest (Supplied) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Police are monitoring Nirvana Drive in Lenasia following violent protests over illegal electricity connections. On Tuesday morning, City Power, the police and the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) conducted a joint operation in the area to remove illegal connections. Several exposed wires used to connect electricity from street lights along Lenasia Drive were removed. After the removal, residents used rocks and burning tyres to barricade streets around Lenasia Extension 1. However, the situation was calm on Wednesday morning, according to police spokesperson Captain Hector Netshivodza. "We are monitoring the area after we managed to disperse the crowd yesterday. The place is quiet for now and roads have been opened for traffic. We have opened a public violence case and no one has been arrested," said Netshivodza. READ: Protesters barricade road after disconnections of stolen electricity in Lenasia City Power spokesperson Isaac Mangena said protesting residents wanted to reconnect the cables that were removed during the joint campaign. He said the illegal connections posed a danger to residents, especially those who cross the railway line to a nearby informal settlement. Mangena said the City would continue with similar operations and would target more upmarket suburbs. "There are illegal connections in suburbs and there are also illegal connections done by big companies and in townhouses," said Mangena. He said these connections were costing the City millions. "At least R2bn is lost annually through illegal connections and this is the money that could have gone to build or electrify more suburbs," said Mangena.  Lenasia: Protest after @CityPowerJhb disconnected illegal connections. @AsktheChiefJMPD @CityofJoburgZA @HermanMashaba pic.twitter.com/8xxXt96au2  #BuyaMthetho #RegionGJoint operation by @JoburgMPD officers , JMPD POPS ,SAPS POPS PRASA and City Power to remove Illegal Electricity connections in Lenasia.Collaboration is key ??#SaferJoburg #JoburgByLaws pic.twitter.com/bsJQXjg48h  Exposed wires used to connect electricity illegally from the street lights along Lenasia Drive. The connections pose danger to the residents especially the children. @CityofJoburgZA @Abramjee pic.twitter.com/4azB3gaKTp  Police firing rubber bullets at protestors: Lenasia. @AsktheChiefJMPD @CityPowerJhb @HermanMashaba @SAPoliceService They took the streets after illegal connections were disconnected. pic.twitter.com/utZLHyhrvZ   WATCH: Firefighters battle blaze in Franschhoek mountains Firefigthers have been battling a large blaze in the Franschhoek mountains since Monday, when it broke out in the Mooiwater area. WATCH: Vicki Momberg shown support after leave to appeal application is postponed Former estate agent Vicki Momberg, who was convicted in connection with a racist rant, was back in the dock in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Wednesday - this time to apply for leave to appeal her effective two-year jail sentence. WATCH: 45 children tumble out of packed Nelson Mandela Bay taxi Nelson Mandela Bay Metro Police arrested a taxi driver who severely overloaded a minibus taxi on Monday, February 18. WATCH: Erratic driver tries to attack motorist A North West motorist was caught on camera recklessly driving on the R24 in Rustenburg with the attempt to threaten another driver. WATCH: Driver catches car thief in the act A motorist managed to stop car thieves seconds before they drove off with his vehicle from a parking lot at a Springs shopping centre. WATCH: State-of-the-art sports ground opens in Philippi FC Bayern captain Philipp Lahm, opened sports ground last Saturday. WATCH: Businessman Patrice Motsepe says it's right that politicians hold companies to account He says however, having relatives in very high positions in government justifiably raises perceptions of favouritism. He remains adamant that he is not being favoured by his relationship with President Cyril Ramaphosa and Energy Minister Jeff Radebe. ANALYSIS: In a way this is the end of Bosasa, says Adriaan Basson News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and Opinions Editor Alet Janse van Rensburg unpack the latest developments in the Bosasa scandal, after the company announced it was under voluntary liquidation. Watch. WATCH: Striking Bosasa workers didn't know about liquidation Workers employed by facilities management company Bosasa, now known as African Global Operations, staged a demonstration outside its Mogale City head office on Monday - minutes after the company announced its voluntary liquidation.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.