Ntwaagae Seleka The Cape Winelands District Municipality has said the Franschhoek Pass was still closed on Tuesday morning as strong winds fanned a fire that broke out in the area near Theewaterskloof Dam overnight. Western Cape provincial disaster management centre's Colin Deiner said the winds have caused the fire to spread rapidly in the direction of the Cape Winelands District, with an easterly wind expected on Tuesday. The pass meanwhile is currently closed as the veld is burning on both sides of the road. READ: Franschhoek Pass closed due to raging veld fire The fire front is currently inaccessible and posed a serious risk and "has the potential to develop into a devastating fire", according to Deiner. Deiner said farmers in area have been informed of the potential risk by the Greater Overberg Fire Protection Association (FPA). The situation is being closely monitored. Fire crews and aerial support were on standby for deployment at first light. More information regarding the fire will follow.  #Franschhoek this morning.#MooiWaterFire pic.twitter.com/y06Xcfcf7M  @TrafficSACape Town - R45 Franschhoek Pass: ROAD CLOSED due to a large fire in the area#CapeFire pic.twitter.com/sByqQqBnDg https://t.co/sByqQqBnDg  Cape Town - R45 Franschhoek Pass: ROAD CLOSED due to a large fire in the area #CapeFire pic.twitter.com/nqEqr8dz5B  Another view of the #MooiwaterFire from #Franschhoek... It's really hard to ignore the beauty of such a powerful force with views like this #FireIsEveryonesFight @OverbergFPA @chairpersonsfpa @NCCWildfires @wo_fire @Nikon_SA @VulcanWildfire @ewnupdates @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/UzOfWxIOR0   WATCH: Businessman Patrice Motsepe says it's right that politicians hold companies to account He says however, having relatives in very high positions in government justifiably raises perceptions of favouritism. He remains adamant that he is not being favoured by his relationship with President Cyril Ramaphosa and Energy Minister Jeff Radebe. ANALYSIS: In a way this is the end of Bosasa, says Adriaan Basson News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and Opinions Editor Alet Janse van Rensburg unpack the latest developments in the Bosasa scandal, after the company announced it was under voluntary liquidation. Watch. WATCH: Striking Bosasa workers didn't know about liquidation Workers employed by facilities management company Bosasa, now known as African Global Operations, staged a demonstration outside its Mogale City head office on Monday - minutes after the company announced its voluntary liquidation. WATCH: The problem isn't plastic, but single use - lid of a take away coffee cup equal to 8 straws The Recup initiative aims to bring an end to the use of single use take away coffee cups, which are often more harmful to the environment than straws. WATCH: Man uses broken wiper blades to manually wipe windscreen A man who opted to manually wipe his windscreen, using his white Fiat Uno's broken wiper blade, has been the source of much amusement online. WATCH: Ash clouds still visible above Medupi Clouds of ash could be seen above the Medupi plant in Limpopo on Thursday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.