Magazine Features (Caters News/MagazineFeatures.com) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories An ostrich appears to have been adopted by a family of elephants – and now they even walk the same way. The unique friendship between an ostrich and a herd of elephants has been captured in Indalu Game Reserve, Mossel Bay, South Africa. Having grown up alongside elephants, the nine-year-old ostrich called Fransina has been caught on camera slowly walking with her new family and even appearing to move her neck like a trunk. Gerhard van Rooyen, owner of the reserve, says Fransina joined the herd of elephants in 2014 after initially latching onto a herd of sheep. "We initially bought Fransina along with a male to take care of the sheep. "The male died about five years [ago] so we sold all the sheep and let Fransina loose to walk around the reserve. "Fransina roamed free for only a short while, before she decided to cautiously build her relationship with the gentle giants. "Visitors are so impressed with finding an ostrich walking with the elephants that they usually snap some pictures with her while they’re there. "Some guests even come to the reserve not only to meet the elephants, but also to ask after the friendly Fransina." Watch the video:  Ostriches are known for being sociable and usually travel in pairs or even in herds of around four or five. But Fransina has knitted a close friendship with the elephants which is seen as an unbreakable, family-like bond. Falling
 in line with the rest of the herd, Fransina can often be spotted 
weaving between the parade of elephants, slowing her pace to match their
 elongated steps and making sure to stay behind the leading member. Fransina even lowers her head as she walks! Guests
 are invited to feed the elephants from "healthy snack buckets" 
containing various fruits – and Fransina has even been caught getting in
 on the action. "Fransina is a very loveable bird. "She likes to settle down onto her haunches as soon as I come near her, ready to receive some cuddles. "Her
 favourite activity is definitely joining the elephant interaction 
sessions, which is one of the most popular Indalu activities for people 
visiting the reserve."  Family of sleepy elephants waking up is adorable A baby elephants and its relatives are taking their sweet time getting up after being awakened by the matriarch of the family. Giraffe gives lion a piggy-back ride Africa's version of Uber? Lioness responds with a klap after being rudely awakened by cheeky male A naughty male lion sneaked up on a lioness while she was dozing in the road, and she wasn't too impressed about the interruption. Silly leopard taking on porcupine at high speed will make your day A leopard vs porcupine is but one of the iconic sightings that everyone wants to see. A mama buffalo gives birth and adorable first steps of newborn We all love baby animals, but we rarely get to see them come into the world!
One lucky sales manager, Brett Reisen, captured the miracle of birth when a mama buffalo popped out its newborn on a dirt road in Sabi Sands.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.