Riaan Grobler PODCAST: The depressing budget, Gavin Watson in action... and Eskom AUDIO: This week on POLOTIKI, we had the budget speech and, yes, it was depressing. Video emerged of Bosasa boss Gavin Watson belittling staff, and more explosive testimony at the commission of inquiry into state capture with the spotlight on Eskom. Former Bosasa boss turned whistleblower Angelo Agrizzi has encouraged other whistleblowers to come forward and tell their stories. Agrizzi was being interviewed by Chad Thomas on Jewish community radio station Chai FM on Monday. "Do it, even if they arrest you - the truth will always come out. Don't stop, work with the authorities," Agrizzi said. When asked by a listener how he slept at night, having been involved in large-scale corruption, Agrizzi replied: "I sleep very well, thank you. Before [testifying before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture] I didn't, but now I do." Inside the ANC's Bosasa election war room Bosasa sponsored these war rooms for the past three elections for the ANC, at an estimated cost of R2-million per election. Agrizzi's marathon nine-day testimony at the commission in January revealed extensive allegations of corruption involving several government ministers - including Nomvula Mokonyane and Gwede Mantashe - as well as ANC MPs, journalists, union officials, and how Bosasa colluded with senior officials for more than a decade to cook tender documents and score lucrative contracts with the state. 'Like an abusive relationship' Agrizzi likened his tenure at Bosasa to "a woman in an abusive relationship". "You hope it gets better. But it took me years to get out of it," Agrizzi said. Agrizzi also described the culture at Bosasa as that of "a cult", where prayer meetings were held and money donated to religious institutions to counter the dodgy deals that were going down. "But when you're in Africa, you do as the Africans do," Agrizzi said of the bribes used to influence politicians. Agrizzi had few kind words for former Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson. "He hasn't been arrested because he's very clever. He hides his name from everything." This why Agrizzi decided to make a video recording of Watson to "prove he was aware of everything, as his signature appears nowhere". Agrizzi described Watson as a narcissistic micromanager who interfered in every aspect of the business. "He was the patriarch." Agrizzi said Watson was politically connected and that, through him, he had met high-ranking politicians, "from the president all the way through". No love for JZ He would, however, not visit Nkandla or the Union Buildings with Watson because of his deep dislike for former president Jacob Zuma, Agrizzi said. "Did you see what happened to the rand after he became president?" Agrizzi asked. Alternately fielding questions from listeners and Thomas, Agrizzi said he had personally benefited from Bosasa deals and felt remorse for his involvement, which had prompted him to spill the beans. "But I am not afraid. God has my back. I have no concerns at all." Agrizzi reiterated his earlier statement: "We are all corruptible, it's just so enticing; it's a sickness that just grows and grows." But, said Agrizzi, "We are going through a game-changing process in South Africa. People earlier just accepted corruption, now we are taking note of it." According to him, the state capture commission was doing a great job. "[Deputy Chief Justice Raymond] Zondo takes action immediately." Ramaphosa's 'heart in right place' He also had great praise for the current administration. "President Cyril Ramaphosa's heart is in the right place, and the new National Director of Public Prosecutions [Shamila Batohi] is very well trained. They are going to make a difference." Speaking about his arrest earlier this month, Agrizzi said the NPA was "professional, helpful and accommodating" and "doing a great job". "Unfortunately, the one who gave instruction [for the arrests] messed up." Agrizzi, together with former Bosasa chief financial officer Andries van Tonder, former Bosasa senior staffer Frans Vorster, current Bosasa employee Carlos Bonifacio and former correctional services top brass Patrick Gillingham and Linda Mti were arrested and charged with numerous counts of violating the Public Finance Management Act and contravening the Prevention and Combating of Corrupt Activities Act. The charges stem from a decade-old Special Investigating Unit report handed over to the NPA in 2009, which found an improper and corrupt relationship existed between Bosasa, Gillingham and Mti, News24 reported. They were released on R20 000 bail each and are scheduled to appear again in court on March 27. According to Agrizzi, he is "happy with the fact that we've made people aware of the extent of corruption". "The biggest problem in South Africa is a sense of entitlement," Agrizzi said. "It's time that corrupt officials get locked up." Angelo Agrizzi will be live on @chaifm today at 12pm. You can listen in Joburg on 101.9FM or listen to the live stream at https://t.co/33HnLB5D4I Chad Thomas will be asking the hard questions. You can join in the conversation by sending your questions and comments by SMS to 34519 pic.twitter.com/8nAelKeWHD  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Director's fraud trial draws protesters Protesters in Russia believe the charges against director Kirill Serebrennikov are political. Raptors' Kyle Lowry gives 'kudos' for van attack arrest Raptors guard Kyle Lowry says the arresting officer in Monday's Toronto van attack did an "amazing" job not using his firearm to take the suspect into custody. Alek Minassian was arrested after a brief sidewalk standoff. . S Africa's Ramaphosa confirms resignation of finance minister Nene South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa has accepted the resignation of Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene, who has faced calls to resign after he admitted to visiting the Gupta brothers, friends of scandal-plagued former leader Jacob Zuma who have b... Freeland: Man detained in Macau not linked to other arrests Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland says Ottawa has “no reason to believe” the case of a man arrested in Macau is linked to two other men detained in China in apparent retaliation for Canada's arrest of a top Huawei executive. Video shows police punch, mock bleeding suspect New police video shows Mesa, Arizona officers punch and mock a bleeding suspect during a violent arrest. It's the third video to surface showing Mesa officers using force that some call questionable. One year into the arrest of two Reuters journalists It's been one year since Reuters journalists Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo were arrested in Myanmar, in a landmark case that's sparked international outcry from human rights activists. Their wives say it's hard to accept their fates in prison. Egypt arrests 19 lawyers and rights activists in raids Egypt has arrested at least 19 lawyers and rights activists in raids that began early Thursday. #Egypt, #Sisi, #arrests Kevin Hart shocked by friend's arrest Kevin Hart is in "complete disbelief" after a close friend was arrested for allegedly trying to extort him. Belgian Samaritans under Arrest Belgian citizens who provide shelter or even assistance to unregistered migrants face the prospect of arrest and charges for organized immigration crimes. WATCH: Agrizzi details unfair advantage given to Bosasa to secure 'one of the biggest' tenders Former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi is on the stand for the fifth day at the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. Auto titan Ghosn arrested over financial misconduct Nissan chairman Carlos Ghosn, one of the world's best-known businessmen, was reportedly under arrest in Japan on Monday in a shocking fall from grace linked to allegations of financial misconduct. Has colonisation continued to shape Nigeria's politics? Nigeria gained its independence from Britain in 1960, having been a colony and separate protectorates as far back as 1885, but has its colonial history continued to shape its political present? We dive into the consequences of English colonisation... Has colonisation continued to shape Nigeria's politics? Nigeria gained its independence from Britain in 1960, having been a colony and separate protectorates as far back as 1885, but has its colonial history continued to shape its political present? We dive into the consequences of English colonisation... Arizona man hit with Taser 11 times, lawsuit filed An Arizona man is suing a suburban Phoenix police department for excessive force after he claims officers used a Taser on him 11 times, including purposefully on his testicles. The Glendale Police Department denies most of the claims. Israeli police arrests a Christian monk and beats other protesters Israeli police arrested a monk and beat several other protesters during a demonstration held by Coptic Christians outside the Church of the Holy Sepulcher in Jerusalem.
#Israel #Jerusalem #HolySepulcher Former Catalan minister has arrest warrant withdrawn A former Catalan politician who has been fighting extradition to Spain has had her international arrest warrant formally withdrawn. LISTEN: That k****r needs a good hiding' - Angelo Agrizzi utters a string of racist slurs A recording of former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi uttering a string of racist slurs, including the k-word, has been labelled as "extremely offensive and totally unacceptable" by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo. Fiancee charged with murder of missing Colo. woman A Colorado man was charged Monday with murder in the death of his missing fiancee Kelsey Berreth. According to a court charging document, 32-year-old Patrick Frazee is also accused of trying to find someone to kill Berreth. Italian police arrest new Mafia boss in Sicily Police arrests jeweller Mineo, 80, and at least 45 others in Sicily just before he was due to be officially anointed at a reconvened Mafia Commission, or Cupola. WATCH: #StateCaptureInquiry: Agrizzi continues his testimony, who will be implicated? Angelo Agrizzi has revealed more details about Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson and associates during his testimony before the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. ANALYSIS | #StateCaptureInquiry: Unpacking Agrizzi's testimony Watch as News24 investigative journalist Kyle Cowen and journalist Jeanette Chabalala unpack former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi's revelations at the state capture commission. Convicted fraudster on track for seat in Moldova polls On the campaign trail, businessman Ilan Shor insists corruption is Moldova's most pressing issue, despite having been convicted in a fraud case local media dubbed "the crime of the century". Shor was handed a seven-and-a-half-year jail term in 201... Trump's feud with Sessions intensifies U.S. President Donald Trump again blasted Attorney General Jeff Sessions on Saturday after Sessions defended himself from the president's scathing criticism over his recusal from a probe into Russia's alleged interference in the 2016 election. "Yellow vests": Arrests, water cannons on the Champs-Elysees Police arrest "yellow vest" protesters and use tear gas and water cannons to disperse the crowd on the Champs-Elysees. Power outage risk rising - South African utility Eskom South Africa's power company Eskom says the risk of nationwide electricity outages has increased significantly due to a sharp fall in coal stockpiles. PARODY: Jacob Zuma sings Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word The closest SA may get to an apology from Jacob Zuma, is this parody of the president singing Elton John's Sorry Seems To Be The Hardest Word. WATCH: Nugent commission deviated from original mandate says Moyane's lawyer Former president Jacob Zuma has entered the fray over the firing of South African Revenue Service (SARS) commissioner Tom Moyane, saying Judge Robert Nugent was not asked to deal with the individual contracts of employees at SARS. Zuma on land: Less debate, more nationalisation Former President Jacob Zuma said there is too much debate about land expropriation without compensation to his liking, and suggested that land should be nationalised. S.Africa: J. Zuma arrives at his hearing over corruption charges Former South African President Jacob Zuma arrives at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of fraud, racketeering and money laundering. 1ST Journalists, supporters and family arrive for J. Zuma's hearing Journalists along with supporters and relatives of former South African President Jacob Zuma arrive at the court before his hearing in Pietermaritzburg. Jacob Zuma, who was forced to resign in February, has been charged with 16 counts of registry ... PODCAST: Zuma's nine lost years? Ramaphosa shouldn't forget — he was there AUDIO: 2019 is off to a flying start, from Bosasa and the endless inquiries to Solly Msimanga stepping down as Tshwane mayor and electioneering getting into full swing.

This week on POLOTIKI, we discuss former president Jacob Zuma's legacy. WATCH: Jacob Zuma arrives at court to support son Duduzane Former president Jacob Zuma arrived at the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday show support for his son Duduzane, who has been charged with two counts of culpable homicide. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part 3) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. WATCH: 'Pay back the money' - MP's jeer at EFF's Floyd Shivambu in ironic turn of events EFF chief whip Floyd Shivambu found himself on the receiving end of MP's jeering in Parliament on Tuesday, when he was heckled to "pay back the money" during a debate on the VBS Mutual Bank scandal. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part 2) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. 'I never thought we would choose corruption' Makhosi Khoza received death threats after branding President Jacob Zuma "a disgrace". LISTEN: Bosasa bosses Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma [WITH SUBTITLES] In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Barbara Hogan's testimony continues (Part1) Former public enterprises minister Barbara Hogan on Tuesday continued her testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture in Johannesburg. WATCH: 'It's me, former president Jacob Zuma' - Zuma joins social media Former president Jacob Zuma says he has decided to "move with times" and join various social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma's culpable homicide trial postponed to March The culpable homicide case against Duduzane Zuma was postponed to March 26 in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma case postponed, Jacob Zuma, BLF show support Duduzane Zuma appeared briefly in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Friday. South Africa's Zuma says he will resign 'with immediate effect' South Africa's President Jacob Zuma has said he will resign "with immediate effect".

Mr Zuma made the announcement late on Wednesday in a televised address to the nation. Transparency International's Corruption Perceptions Index: who are the best and worst in Europe? Greece was the European Union member state that saw the biggest decrease in annual rankings measuring perceptions of corruption across the world. WATCH: Agrizzi, van Tonder and Gillingham appear in dock The Hawks on Wednesday arrested six suspects on allegations of corruption, money laundering and fraud relating to Bosasa. A warrant of arrest has been issued for a seventh suspect. Hundreds march in Lima against corruption Hundreds of people protest in Lima against corruption, and demand the resignation of Attorney General Pedro Chavarry, who dismissed then reinstated a pair of prosecutors in charge of investigating political corruption. Nigeria votes after week-long delay Nigerians vote for a new president after a week-long postponement that has raised political tempers, sparked conspiracy claims and stoked fears of violence. Last-minute voting challenges ruffle Georgia race In the race to become Georgia's next governor, it's claims of voter suppression vs. claims of voter fraud. Jonah Green is on the story. South Africa's ex-president just signed a record deal Former president Jacob Zuma, who is implicated in a major corruption scandal, has been given a taxpayer-funded record deal.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.