Duncan Alfreds Ithuba's regional office in Cape Town. (Duncan Alfreds, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The winner of the record PowerBall prize has still not come forward to claim the jackpot, following the draw on Tuesday night. A person who bought the ticket at the OK Minimark in Tygerdal, Cape Town, won a massive R232 131 750.69. READ: Cape Town PowerBall record jackpot winner still to claim massive prize However, even though the winner hasn't come forward, the win has been great for business. "I'm so excited, it's like I won it," business owner Johan Rothman told News24 on Friday. "It's been a whole publicity exercise as well - unintentionally. There's been a lot of interest from the public to see the machine that paid out the biggest payment in history." Waiting winners He said that people have come from as far as Paarl and Stellenbosch to visit the store. The winner will have to present him or herself at an Ithuba Regional Office to claim the jackpot. "We usually ask them to check online or call our call centre and we ask them to visit a regional office for winnings over R50 000," Ithuba Corporate Relations Executive Khensani Mabuza told News24. READ: Multimillionaire status! One person wins record PowerBall jackpot Mabuza said that people sometimes waited for up to a week before claiming their jackpot. The winner will undergo a Winner Services Process that will include an identification and verification process. "They can come with family, but in order to complete the process, we limit them to one family member. We send the ticket to Johannesburg to check if there's any fraud," said Mabuza. Winners are offered free financial, psychological and trauma counselling. "You might play with a clear idea of what you want to do, but other people don't understand how it can affect them - things that you might never have thought of before," Mabuza said. Lucky store The OK Minimark appears to be a lucky store as a former employee won a jackpot five years ago. "Five years ago, an ex-employee of mine won R12m after playing a Quick Pick [ticket]," said Rothman. "He asked me whether he should resign and he's doing well now. He bought himself a house and a bakkie." The winner picked their own numbers and while Rothman doesn't know who won, he said that his regular customers generally play their own numbers, rather than going for the automatic selection. "There's a lot regulars - they are the people who play their own numbers. I play myself; I've got a couple of coupons in the cubbyhole of my car when there's a big draw," he said. The jackpot for Friday's PowerBall is R5m, but the PowerBall Plus jackpot is estimated at R36m. Winners get the full payout from Ithuba as the organisation does not deduct any money on behalf of SARS upfront. "We pay out with no tax. If you win R10, you get R10," said Mabuza. But winners are still subject to normal taxation rules in their income tax returns. International jackpots She warned though, that winners must present the original ticket in order to claim a prize. "Unfortunately, we need a physical ticket." While the South African win is huge, the US Mega Millions jackpot for Friday night is estimated at a whopping $224m (R3.1bn) and the EuroMillions jackpot is €17m (R269m).   If you would like to check to see if you were a winner, here are the winning numbers: PowerBall numbers: 14, 18, 21, 26, 35 PowerBall: 5 PowerBall Plus numbers: 14, 16, 32, 38, 50 PowerBall: 19 The next PowerBall and PowerBall Plus draws are on Friday. Get your tickets and get the results right here on News24! Download the News24 app via the Play or the iTunes app stores and get a free alert when results are in after each draw. Tap here to download for Android or here to download for iOS. Get the full list of past Lotto and PowerBall draws here. * Please note that the information provided herein is third party information. While every effort is expended to ensure that the information provided is true and accurate, we are not responsible for errors, omissions or any loss which an individual may experience. See the National Lottery Terms and conditions here.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter VIDEO: New footage shows devastation after Cape Town N1 high speed crash New footage of the crashed BMW on the N1 in Cape Town has emerged on social media, this time showing the aftermath of the incident. Ed Sheeran has a special message for his Cape Town fans Ed Sheeran has announced a second and final show at Cape Town Stadium on Thursday, 28 March 2019. The Wonder of Rwanda Kigali is joining the ranks of start-up cities in Africa alongside Lagos, Nairobi and Cape Town. A new start-up center has just opened there. WATCH: 'Small meteor' lights up Cape night sky Social media was ablaze with talk about a meteor that lit up the Western Cape sky in loud, fiery fashion on Wednesday. 
One lucky farmer managed to capture the meteor on CCTV camera. WATCH: Oh beer! Crates of alcohol crash out of beer truck in Cape Town It was unhappy hour for a truck driver who lost a huge load of beer after attempting to turn his vehicle in South Africa on Friday. WATCH: Crowd brutally attacks man armed with paintball gun On Saturday a crowd attacked a man in Seapoint in Cape Town. WATCH: Buses burned, windows shattered in CPUT violence Vandals destroyed two buses and damaged buildings at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology's Bellville campus in the early hours of Wednesday morning. Boulders Beach - Home of the African Penguin It is one of the world's most Instagrammed beaches. It is nature at its most pristine. And you can even swim with penguins. WATCH: Crash, booze, bang in Cape Town as nearly 12 000 litres of alcohol go down the drain City of Cape Town law enforcement officers popped open more than 16 000 liquor cans and bottles on Thursday as the City prepares for the upcoming festive season. WATCH: Shark spotters: proactive initiative going swimmingly Naveron Lesch is on the lookout for the ocean's most dominant predator, one fully-trained member of a team of 30 Shark Spotters, a proactive early warning shark safety service operating on eight of Cape Town's beaches. WATCH: Holy Cross primary in Cape Town on fire Firefighters were called out to Holy Cross RC Primary School in the Cape Town CBD after plumes of smoke were seen emanating from the premises. WATCH: Criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik shot dead outside Green Point school Reports have emerged that lawyer Pete Mihalik has been murdered in a Cape Town shooting. Newborn baby girl pulled out of South African storm drain Emergency services were called after cries were heard coming from the drain in Newlands East, near Durban in South Africa. Following a three-hour rescue operation, police are now investigating how the baby got there in the first place. WATCH: Looters target truck trapped by too low bridge The driver of this RTT Intelligent Logistics truck found himself stuck between a bridge he could not pass under and a group of waiting looters late last week. Absa Premiership 2018/19 profile: Cape Town City A look at the profile of Absa Premiership side Cape Town City ahead of the 2018/19 season. Mammoth lottery jackpots top $1.3 billion The Mega Millions and Powerball jackpots combined now top $1.3 billion. Linda So has more. Winning ticket sold in $1.6 bln U.S. lottery One ticket sold in South Carolina matched all six numbers in the Mega Millions lottery draw for a record-setting $1.6 billion jackpot, the state's lottery says. Two winning Powerball tickets sold in NY, Iowa Two winning tickets in the $688 million Powerball jackpot were sold in New York and Iowa. Lottery hopefuls dream big ahead of $1.6B draw Lottery fever is spreading in the United States this week with a Mega Millions jackpot of $1.6 billion and a $620 million Powerball up for grabs. WATCH: Four accused for Hannah Cornelius rape and murder arrive at court A thumb print on the packet of a government-issued condom was linked to one of the four people accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius, the Western Cape High Court heard on Tuesday. Miley Cyrus is in Cape Town, South Africa Miley Cyrus was spotted shopping in Cape Town, South Africa. WATCH Hundreds of flamingo chicks admitted to SANCCOB for life-saving rehabilitation Over 2 000 abandoned and distressed flamingo chicks were jetted all over South Africa this week as part of a series of mercy flights from Kimberley after their habitat came under threat due to water problems. Travel With A Purpose: The Fight For Clean Water In The Forgotten Corners Of South Africa Wishing Well International Foundation (WWIF) has been travelling to parts of SA that have been struggling with water issues long before Cape Town. South Africans confront a gloomy economic outlook South Africa's economy has entered recession for the first time since 2009, dealing a blow to President Cyril Ramaphosa's economic reform agenda. WATCH: MyCiTi employees' 'wildcat' strike continued on Tuesday A "wildcat" strike by MyCiTi employees appeared to enter its second day on Tuesday as the bus service announced disruptions on several routes around Cape Town. Why Cape Town is turning off its taps South Africa's second largest city is in the midst of a severe drought. WATCH: Cape Town's karate kid raises tournament money through hard work and community support A pint-sized karate kid from Lansdowne in Cape Town has unleashed his inner entrepreneur, raising money to take part in a national karate tournament by selling atchar, dried fruit and sauces at a stall in Rylands. WATCH: Thick smoke above Cape Town station from fresh train fire Thick, black smoke is once again permeating the air above Cape Town train station, in what appears to be another train-related fire. WATCH: Shack dwellers association marches through Cape Town streets Western Cape social movements and Abahlali baseMjondolo took to the streets of Cape Town Monday in protest over what they allege failure by the ANC government in bringing justice to the killings in their activists. VIDEO: 'We pay R2 to use mall toilets' – Cape Town informal settlement residents demand basic servic Five Cape Town communities joined with social justice movements to march to the Cape Town Civic Centre on Thursday. 

The protesters expressed exasperation over the lack of basic services in informal settlements in the city. WATCH: Zille breaks ground on R3bn mixed-income residential project Western Cape Premier Helen Zille said the "pioneering" housing project expected at the site of the derelict old Conradie Hospital in Cape Town could "make or break" the current housing system. WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. Couples marry on Robben Island in tribute to Mandela On Valentine's Day, couples tie the knot on Robben Island in South Africa to pay tribute to Nelson Mandela who spent time in prison on the island during Apartheid. WATCH: Bakkie goes swimming while trying to pull boat out of the water in Cape Town A man who was pulling a boat out of the water at the Oceana Power Boat Club in Granger Bay, Cape Town, got more than he bargained for at the weekend when his vehicle also had to be towed out of the water. WATCH: Fire engulfs Lion's Head Families living in Sea Point, Cape Town evacuated their homes on Sunday evening as the flames that engulfed the lower slopes of Lion's Head near Quarry Hill were coming down on them. Going drag racing with a politician Watch as City of Cape Town's mayoral committee member for safety and security JP Smith answers questions while sitting passenger at a legal racing event. It's time to involve the entire security cluster - Blade Nzimande after latest Cape Town train fire Firefighters have arrived at Cape Town train station to battle yet another train-related blaze after thick, black smoke permeated the air above the station on Tuesday. WATCH: High speed N1 Cape Town crash leaves BMW driver critical Video of a BMW crashing into a barrier on the N1 in Cape Town and spinning out of control has gone viral online. WATCH: A poor man can come to this sale... and buy a champion Former golfer and stud farm owner Gary Player says race horse ownership is more accessible than many may realise. We caught up with the legendary sportsman at the 2019 Cape Premier Yearling Sale in Cape Town. Watch. WATCH: Firefighters battle 'out of control' blaze in Vrygrond, Cape Town amid heatwave In its efforts to help communities affected by the recent fires in Cape Town get back on their feet, the City of Cape Town is in the process of clearing debris and issuing emergency fire kits. WATCH: 'A fairy-tale day' as homeless couple exchanges wedding vows A dream came true for Llewellyn Jenniker and Cecilia Jenniker on Tuesday when the homeless couple, who've been living together on the streets for decades, finally tied the knot. The Street Art Galleries of Cape Town Rather than an act of vandalism, many see graffiti art as a form of visual poetry engaging with the people of the city. This is your guide to exploring the open-air galleries of the Mother City in South Africa. WATCH: Three accused of murdering Mihalik appear in court The three men accused of Pete Mihalik's murder - Vuyile Maliti, Sinozokohle Biyela and Nkosinathi Khumalo - appear in the Cape Town Magistrate's Court on Friday 15 February 2019. WATCH: The Sasol Solar Challenge Sasol Solar Challenge 2018 took place from the 22nd to the 30th of September. FLAMINGO CHICKS rescued from perilously low water levels in South Africa Some 300 Lesser flamingo baby chicks have been rescued and taken into the care of the SANCCOB conservation centre in Cape Town.  According to a veterinarian in charge of feeding the baby flamingos, David Roberts, the centre received information "t... WATCH: Cellphone footage shows violent mob justice on Cape Town promenade On Sunday, the Eden on the bay promenade in Big bay, seemed no different than it usually does on a sunny weekend for the most part of the day. Then the end of the day saw the stretch of grass on the promenade turn into a small war zone. WATCH: Forensic teams comb crime scene after Mihalik shooting A police officer calls for assistance moments after criminal lawyer Pete Mihalik was shot dead in his car in Green Point, Cape Town. NY man revealed as $343M Powerball jackpot winner Robert Bailey was introduced Wednesday by New York lottery officials as the winner of last months record-breaking Powerball jackpot. Bailey shares his winnings of nearly $700 million, with a woman in Iowa who also picked the winning combo. NY man revealed as $343M Powerball jackpot winner Robert Bailey was introduced Wednesday by New York lottery officials as the winner of last months record-breaking Powerball jackpot. Bailey shares his winnings of nearly $700 million, with a woman in Iowa who also picked the winning combo.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.