Ntwaagae Seleka Students from the Tshwane University of Technology's Soshanguve campus march through the streets of Pretoria CBD. (Alex Mitchley, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) has suspended all academic activities at its campuses in Pretoria, Arts, Arcadia, Ga-Rankuwa, eMalahleni and Mbombela due to ongoing student protests. However, academic activities at the Soshanguve and Polokwane campuses proceeded on Monday, according to TUT spokesperson Willa De Ruyter. De Ruyter said academic, administrative and support staff reported for duty at all campuses on Monday morning, despite the protests, and added that they would continue to do so on Tuesday. "During Monday's meeting, management's response to the student representatives' memorandum submitted on Saturday was given to the student representatives to be shared with their constituencies. WATCH: TUT students march to the police ministry over student death Chaos erupted on Wednesday as around 300 students marched through the Pretoria CBD protesting over the death of a student who was allegedly shot by police last week. "It was also impressed on the student leaders that the academic project is under threat of losing professional accreditation if it does not resume without any further disruptions," she said. READ: Academic activities at TUT campuses remain suspended A follow-up meeting between management and student leaders is scheduled for Tuesday afternoon. De Ruyter said registration for all students would be extended by five working days. Last week, academic activities at the campuses were suspended as a result of the protests. The university apologised for the inconvenience the suspension of activities caused and advised students and others who were affected to visit its website for updated information. Safety concerns "The safety of staff, students and infrastructure is a priority for the university. As a people's university, TUT remains committed to resolving issues within its mandate soonest. Therefore, management will continue to engage with student leaders and other relevant role players to reach amicable solutions," she said. Chairperson of the EFF Students Command, Kingsley Baloyi, claimed that students also missed classes because they had been trying to sort out issues they had, such as not being allowed to register. He added that they were also unhappy about student allowance allocations. First-year students were given a R5 000 book allowance, while senior students received a R2 500 allowance. Baloyi said senior students felt the discrepancy was unfair and that it created unnecessary animosity between student groups.  WATCH: Car-free zones piloted in Pretoria as part of Transport Month The City of Tshwane has created a temporary Car-Free Zone in the heart of Hatfield in Pretoria on Friday. WATCH: Buses burned, windows shattered in CPUT violence Vandals destroyed two buses and damaged buildings at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology's Bellville campus in the early hours of Wednesday morning. WATCH: Emergency personnel working to free people trapped under collided trains At least three people have been confirmed dead, while scores of others have been left injured following a train collision at Mountain View station, Pretoria on
Tuesday morning. WATCH: Straight from the horse's mouth - Pretoria preacher uses trusty steed to deliver sermon Seeing a man on a horse is a rare sight nowadays, and a man on his steed in a church, even more so. WATCH: Two police officers charged with murder of TUT student granted bail Two police officers were granted bail at the Soshanguve Magistrates Court on Tuesday. WATCH: Pretoria West streets gridlocked as residents burn tyres and block roads Motorists and commuters have been warned to avoid several parts of Pretoria West on Thursday owing to protest action that started in the early hours of the morning. WATCH: Roaring trade for some small businesses amidst load shedding gloom Last Sunday Eskom implemented load shedding for the first time since December 2019. While this has resulted in major inconvenience and loss of income for ordinary South Africans and most businesses, some are seeing a sharp increase in trade as a dire WATCH: Traffic disrupted as truck burns on N1 highway in Pretoria Smoke is billowing on the N1 north highway in Pretoria after a truck caught fire just before the Garsfontein off-ramp. WATCH: Truck carrying bitumen catches fire Part of the R21 near Irene in Pretoria was covered in a cloud of black smoke as a truck transporting bitumen caught fire.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.