Jenna Etheridge Tribute on the beach (Cape Town Beach Cleanup) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Cody the dog may have been small in stature but he had a big personality, especially when he was playing with his ball or walking on the beach in Cape Town. In death, the 8-year-old Maltese Poodle-Yorkie cross ended up making an even bigger impact when his owner decided to leave a bright yellow box full of brand-new tennis balls on the beach in Bloubergstrand for other families and their dogs to enjoy. Linda Bamford Hefer explained to News24 on Friday that it was her daughter Cayley, 17, who came up with the idea to leave a tribute for Cody after his traumatic sudden death from pancreatitis. Cayley wanted a lapdog and received Cody as a birthday present. He joined their already big canine family – which has two golden retrievers, Annie and Honey, and Roxy (a cross Toy Pomeranian who was rescued). "He was the cutest thing with the biggest personality. He thought he was a Rottweiler and he wasn't scared of anything," Bamford Hefer fondly recalled. "He would forever be picking up our shoes and was always up to mischief. He was also a brilliant little guard dog." An amazing swimmer The family went away for December and left the dogs at home in the care of a capable housekeeper. Cody appeared fine when they returned but then started vomiting. After several visits to the vet, and tearful nights spent at his side, Bamford Hefer eventually brought him home so he could be with the family. He died on January 25. "It was all such a shock and so sudden. Cayley was absolutely devastated. She came up with the box idea because we used to walk him every day on the beach. "He was the most amazing swimmer and would go into the rock pools. He would run after the ball with Roxy and loved the beach," Bamford Hefer said. Beachgoers shared their joy on social media at discovering the balls in the box which has a photo of Cody and his name on the front. Someone even added stones with words on it to the box in remembrance of their father-in-law. 'Live like your dog' One person commented on Facebook: "Such a great idea linda..seen so many have fun and then return the balls..I'm amazed they still there! (sic)." Another said: "Oh my soul... such a precious way of paying it forward in memory of a beautiful fur child." The box welcomes people to pop the balls back in the box once used so others can enjoy them too. Bamford Hefer said they recently visited the box and all 14 balls had disappeared. "Initially I was disappointed because I thought it had been ransacked. But maybe someone had taken them to re-use with their dogs." The family was still deciding whether to top up the box. They were touched by messages of support and comfort from strangers. "It has been closure and it is so heartwarming. All I want to say is to follow the message on the box: Live like your dog does, with happiness, loyalty and love." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 'Fluffytorium' opens in London to celebrate cuddly pets A Fluffytorium opens for two days, giving the public the chance to stroke and play with some of the fluffiest cats and dogs. Hero police dog dies A hero police dog that helped capture more than 200 suspects has died. Special Pets as an accessory We all remember the days when celebrities brought their dogs along to glamorous red carpet events. But are pets as an accessory still a trend? Let's find out what our experts Alexis and Kim have to say about it. Raising a guide dog These puppies are just a few weeks old - but they're destined for a serious job in a few years' time. Nepalese police dogs honoured for their duty in annual festival Nepalese police dogs honoured for their duty in annual festival Kid against giant ball A giant football knocks a child off his feet. Moscow's Stray Subway Riding Dogs If you happen to be riding the subway in Moscow be sure to bring along a dog biscuit or two. Strays in the city know how to get around on the subway, which makes it official: commuting is for the dogs. Where will UK pets receive the most gifts this Christmas? With Christmas just ten days away, it's the nation's beloved family dogs that are most looking forward to a visit from 'Santa Paws', with Amazon revealing that 74 per cent of all pet Christmas presents have been bought for our canine companions. Animal charity searches for UK's fattest pets A couch-potato lifestyle and excessive food consumption is fuelling a four-legged obesity crisis, warns PDSA vets.

To help tackle the problem, the charity is searching for the UK's chubbiest cats, dogs and rabbits. AP Top Stories December 25 Here's the latest for Tuesday December 25th: Thousands displaced after Indonesia tsunami; Police dog killed in Florida shootout; Tokyo markets follow Wall Street plunge; President Trump in Washington for Christmas. Chrissy Teigen's dog has heart failure Chrissy Teigen's dog Puddy has been diagnosed with heart failure after she rushed her pet pooch to the emergency vets. Pet Owning Couple Launch Range Of Dog Beer A couple who wanted to find healthy treats for their elderly canine ended up launching a range of dog beer. Young South Koreans are choosing pets over kids Strained by sky-high housing prices and notorious working hours, more and more young people in South Korea are choosing 'fur' babies over real ones. That means fancy pet food, puppy photo shoots and even dog funerals. Check this little dog playing on her owner's lap! Puppy sitting on woman's lap. Freestyle skier 'heartbroken' after visiting South Korean dog meat farm American freestyle skier Gus Kenworthy visits a dog meat farm in South Korea. Four years ago British-born Kenworthy rescued five stray dogs during the Sochi Games. Paris Jackson has surgery on 'golf ball' abscess Paris Jackson has revealed she underwent emergency surgery last week to remove a huge abscess. Dog rescued in Brazil dam collapse disaster Rescuers save a dog as they work overnight searching for around 300 people missing after a dam collapse at a mine in southeast Brazil killed at least nine, but the local governor said "odds are minimal" that they would be found alive. Animal Clinic - Part 18 A dog with badly matted hair is given extra attention, Lisa investigates the condition of two donkeys. Dog rescued after falling from cliff in Swanage The RNLI rescued a dog from the sea after it fell from a cliff in Swanage, Dorset. Roxy the bulldog rescued from tight spot A bulldog had to be rescued after she got stuck between a rock and a hard place. Roxy got trapped between a wall and a fence in a back garden in Heol Cleddau in Waunarlwydd, Swansea, last week. Westminster Kennel Club dog show underway in NY Dogs of all breeds are rounding the rings again at the Westminster Kennel Club dog show.  Breed judging began Monday at the illustrious show in New York. Dog helps look for bodies after Brazil dam disaster Firefighters use dogs to help in the search for bodies in Brumadinho, Brazil, after a dam collapse at a mine, resulting in nearly 360 people killed or missing. Dog Musher We go to the dogs when we visit Frank Turner of Muktuk Adventures to learn what dog mushing is all about. In addition to the dog mushing, Barry gets a taste of what it's like to care for over 100 irrepressible snow-loving sled dogs. Movie Report: 'Show Dogs' Let us introduce you to 'Show Dogs', a film in which a rottweiler is a macho police dog who has to go undercover as... you guessed it, a show dog.  Perhaps this film is best described as 'Miss Congeniality' with a dog. Buy for €30, sell at €1,000: Italy police bust puppy trafficking ring Police said the gang illegally imported the puppies into Italy from “abusive farms” in Slovakia and sold them on as pets using falsified pedigree certificates. 86 puppies rescued from pet store fire Firefighters were joined by passers-by to rescue nearly 100 puppies from a burning Connecticut pet store. From hefty hounds to healthy hounds - two dogs share UK's 'biggest loser' crown Two dogs have been named joint pet slimmers of the year in 2018's PDSA Pet Fit Club competition after both shedding a quarter of their bodyweight - an incredible 18.8kg.

Every year vet charity PDSA helps the UK's fattest pets battle the bulge in ... Meet the 18-year-old freestyle football world champ Liv Cooke is on top of the world at just 18 years old, having been crowned Freestyle football world champ at the Super Ball in 2017. Along the way, she has also picked up Parliamentary Rising Star and Woman of the Future awards. Kylie Jenner gets dog house built for dogs Kylie Jenner is having a lavish dog house built for her pet pooches Norman and Bambi in the garden of her mansion. Cardi B and Offset have eight dogs Cardi B has revealed her husband Offset has decided to keep five puppies from the litter of eight the couple's pet dogs had in June. China's luxury hotel for dogs Pets get treated to cinema and swimming pools as China welcomes the Year of the Dog. China's dog meat trade under attack by animal activists Around 10 million dogs are being slaughtered in China for food consumption. These animal lovers have been pushing for a ban on dog meat trade in this lunar Year of the Dog. Meghan talks about her rescue dog during animal charity visit The Duchess of Sussex held dogs and met staff at the animal welfare charity which she now supports as patron. 

Meghan visited the headquarters of Mayhew which works to keep cats and dogs, whether family pets or companions for the homeless, safe a... Student adopts abandoned fox cub as pet A student who has become a surrogate mum to an abandoned vixen cub has told how the adorable creature is now best friends with her pet Labrador - aping the Disney movie The Fox and The Hound. Dogs are trained in the French Alps for avalanche rescue France's army and police have been working together for several years to train dog handlers in avalanche rescue. Candidates have to complete a training exercise under realistic conditions before qualifying. Seven-month-old calf thinks she is a dog Harveigh, a rescued calf, thinks she is a dog. She was rescued during Hurricane Harvey and brought up in a house of seven dogs in Texas. Now she has grown too big to live indoors. Rescued duck finds budding romance with a dog Woof, a duck that was rescued from the roadside in Omsk, has found a budding romance with a canine.  Anastasia Kalmychkova  found the duck and took it back to her flat and her two dogs. Although she had her reservations, she didn’t need to worry a... Italian academy trains dogs to find truffles A  labrador wags his tail, happy to have found the hidden treasure as he graduates from Italy's "truffle dog university", making his master proud. Giovanni Monchiero is the dean of the unusual academy in Roddi in northwestern Italy and, like his f... Footage shows a dog being ditched at the side of a road Heartbreaking footage shows a dog being abandoned. Dog escapes Australia rubbish truck A dog thrown into a rubbish truck survives struggling against compacter blades and piles of rubbish. Dog miraculously survives garbage truck ordeal The RSPCA in Australia has released CCTV of a dog found inside a garbage truck, who miraculously managed to survive. The dog getting over its bad image Egypt's Baladi dogs are often looked down upon as strays, but things are changing. Chris Pratt offers rules for life Chris Pratt offered his rules for life in his MTV Movie & TV Awards speech, including tips for medicating a dog and how to "poop" in public. Art gallery for dogs opens in London London's first National Paw-trait Gallery, designed especially for our four-legged-friends, has opened. Portraits are hung at both human and dog eye level. Don't miss this dogs amazing skill! Dog balancing book with its head. This is why dogs are man's best friend Dog plays basketball with kids. There is no doubt: dogs are man's best friend Dog opening a can of beer. Russian referee collects over 800 soccer balls Retired Russian referee and soccer ball collector Mikhail Koshelev has put the best of his 800 soccer balls on display in Sochi. Police dog balances juicy sausage on his nose A police dog who went viral for balancing six biscuits on his nose before scoffing them has repeated the trick with a juicy cooked sausage.

Handler Pc Wayne Thompson showed off the obedience displayed by his nine-and-a-half-year-old Dutch Herder ...   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.