Ashraf Hendricks The Anti-gang Unit was launched in Cape Town on November 2, 2018. The Western Cape has the highest rate of gang violence in South Africa. (Ashraf Hendricks, GroundUp) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Two months into 2019, the death toll for the year in Bonteheuwel rose to 18 after a 26-year-old man died from "a gunshot wound to the upper body" on Tuesday, according to police. A case of murder and attempted murder is being investigated, said Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana of the South African Police Service (SAPS), GroundUp reports. "We are calling it the war in our back streets," said community leader Henriette Abrahams. Since Christmas, Bonteheuwel has seen a spate of incidents related to gang violence. "It's a drug turf war," said Abrahams. Gangs are fighting to broaden their turf and they are "pulling in children to do their dirty work". Over the last month in Mitchells Plain, 25 people have died in what also appears to be gang-related violence. The Mitchells Plain precinct has the second-highest number of reported crimes in South Africa. Read: Fears of escalating gang violence after man killed, 3 injured in Cape Town shooting On Tuesday evening, a consultative meeting to discuss safety was held with the Mitchells Plain community, its leaders, members of the Mitchells Plain Community Policing Forum (CPF), SAPS and Correctional Services. The meeting was chaired by Lennit Max, police minister Bheki Cele's special adviser. About 70 people attended the meeting. "Currently we are living in fear," said Byron de Villiers, chairperson of the Lentegeur CPF. "We're calling it a war, because that's what it is." Basil Coetzee, a community activist, said the community should move from criminal justice to "people's justice". Coetzee said the current justice system favours criminals. He said police should be rotated in the various areas. "When gangsters are on first-name terms with police officers, I worry," he said. "It's a relationship that should not be there." WATCH: Here's what the Anti-Gang Unit has achieved since its implementation The Anti-Gang Unit is on a roll since its deployment in the Western Cape, Police Minister Bheki Cele claimed on Thursday. WATCH: Ramaphosa responds to the call for an intervention in Cape Flats gangsterism President Cyril Ramaphosa and Police Minister Bheki Cele formally launched the anti-gang unit in an effort to disorganise and disable the criminal economy linked to gangsterism in Hanover Park and surrounding areas. WATCH: Bheki Cele visits family of Gift of the Givers volunteer killed in gang shooutout Police Minister Bheki Cele paid a visit to the family of Ameerodien Noordien, the Gift of the Givers volunteer who was killed in gang crossfire in Hanover Park, Cape Town. WATCH: 1 dead, 1 injured in Valhalla Park gang-related shooting One person was shot dead and another injured in a gang-related shooting in Valhalla Park, Cape Town, on Thursday morning. WATCH: Heavily armed gang steals R170 000 from supermarket A Pick n Pay supermarket in Sebokeng was robbed of an estimated R170 000 last Saturday. This after several armed men demanded keys to the safe from the manager of the outlet. WATCH: #WesternCapeShutdown: Over 250 people march to Parliament against gang violence Over 200 people marched from Keizergracht to Parliament and the Western Cape government provincial offices as part of the #WesternCapeShutdown against gang violence on Wednesday morning.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.