Riaan Grobler WATCH: #Resurrection challenge - South Africans mock 'resurrection miracle' pastor South Africans mock 'resurrection' pastor. The 'resurrection' by pastor Alph Lukau. (Screengrab/Twitter) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The leader of the Incredible Happenings church, Paseka "Mboro" Motsoeneng, known simply as "Prophet Mboro", will on Thursday confront pastor Alph Lukau for "bringing Christianity into disrepute". This relates to a viral video of Lukau, of Alleluia International Ministries church in Kramerville, Sandton, performing a "resurrection". In the video, a Kings and Queens Real Funeral Services hearse can be seen transporting a coffin into the church where Lukau and congregants pray before the man rises from the coffin, breathing heavily in what is apparently staged to be a miraculous resurrection. In a media statement titled "This unholy media war must stop now!", Mboro, together with the South African Funeral Practitioners' Association (Safpa), voices his displeasure about Lukau pulling "such an antic for the sake of quick fame and cameras". Read: Resurrection pastor shifts blame to man's family, denies having power to resurrect Mboro, who is described as "one of the most recognisable charismatic prophets in South Africa" and "a leading activist in South African communities", further states that a group of bishops and pastors "have also voiced their concerns and will join the charismatic Prophet Mboro to air their frustration". "No bona fide religious leader, in his right sense of mind and driven by the spirit of our Creator, can attempt to pull such an antic for the sake of quick fame and cameras. And that trick has immediately backfired, with many civil society groups denouncing Lukau, and other church leaders," Mboro said. This is supposedly the "dead" man whom Alph Lukau resurrected from the dead.Just look at him.Such fraud must be punishable! pic.twitter.com/HY5AZSEBCp  "In the news and on social media, South Africans are expressing deep disbelief over the supposed resurrection of a man - which appears to be a bad (sic) rehearsed act. Funeral parlours are distancing themselves from the act, and even the Zimbabwean government has issued a [statement] saying that was not its resurrected citizen," Mboro said. According to Sowetan, Lukau's church claimed on Wednesday that the "dead" man was actually "already alive" when his "body" got to the premises and that Lukau had only "completed a miracle that God had already started".The funeral parlour claimed to have been duped into taking part in the act and reported the matter to the police on Monday, Sowetan reported. Read more: Funeral parlour distances itself from 'resurrection' pastor, seeks legal action Prophet Mboro said he would be visiting the Alleluia Ministries International "to demand answers from pastor Lukau, to demand an apology on the misrepresentation of the gospel,  and most importantly - to plead with Pastor Lukau to abandon his devious ways and turn to the Lord". The meeting has been scheduled for 12:00 on Thursday. While Pastor Alph Lukau is busy talking, I encourage to concentrate on the mouth of the guy in the coffin then you will decide if he was dead or not. Maybe this guy can bring back the like of Nelson Mandela, Hector Peterson, Hugh Masekela, Steve Biko, OR Tambo and others. pic.twitter.com/lFoNsM0grO     WATCH: 'Maybe it is real' – CRL Rights Commission on Pastor Lukau The CRL Rights Commission on Tuesday said it will be investigating the allegations that a dead man was resurrected at the Alleluia International Ministries church. WATCH: Infamous snake pastor strikes again, this time feeding dog meat to congregants Controversial "snake pastor" Penuel Mnguni who has fed snake and rat to his congregants has now chosen dog meat for communion. WATCH: Witness says she was 14 when pastor Timothy Omotoso started molesting her The first witness has taken the stand of the trial of controversial pastor Timothy Omotoso, taking place in Port Elizabeth. WATCH: The church is bigger than Bushiri - ECG Church spokesperson Prophet Bushiri's Enlightened Christian Gathering church briefed the media on events following a deadly stampede at the church on December 28, 2018. WATCH: Prophet Bushiri takes responsibility for deadly church stampede Prophet Shepherd Bushiri on Monday appeared at the CRL Rights Commission hearing looking into the stampede that claimed three lives at the Enlightened Christian Gathering Church (ECG) in Pretoria. WATCH: Straight from the horse's mouth - Pretoria preacher uses trusty steed to deliver sermon Seeing a man on a horse is a rare sight nowadays, and a man on his steed in a church, even more so.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.