Tammy Petersen Dr Gideon Groenewald in Makhanda. (Tammy Petersen, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Dr Gideon Groenewald has an unconventional way of finding water in drought-stricken regions. But while the hydrologist, geologist and palaeontologist's methods may be somewhat unusual, they have resulted in more than 200 boreholes being drilled with 90% accuracy over eight months. Oom Gideon, as he prefers to be called, is part of the Gift of the Givers team which on Tuesday struck pure drinking water at 145 metres in Makhanda at his first attempt. The find is conservatively estimated to produce 20 000 litres of water per day, the organisation said. The disaster relief NGO arrived in the town formerly known as Grahamstown last week with truckloads of water for residents of the eastern side of the area. They had been without running water for days after an excessive amount of sediment resulted in the James Kleynhans Water Treatment Plant being unable to operate. READ: Makhanda water crisis - Fresh hope as Gift of the Givers strikes water Groenewald, wearing his signature floppy sunhat, was part of the convoy. He had already identified three possible borehole sites using his uncommon technique. "I do my sightings under prayer to God. And I ask Him and he leads me to the point. I cannot find or see water. God gives the water," he told News24. Early riser He is "first a believer, and then a scientist". "God has given us the wisdom in the science of geology and geohydrology to find water that He stores underground." His "working hours" are usually between 01:00 and 04:00, when he accesses Google Maps and zooms 78km above the earth. "I pray for God to indicate to me where the possible zones are. I then make a GPS point where a road crosses that zone. Then with my GPS and magnetometer, I confirm on land where the point is that God indicated to me and then I start drilling." On Tuesday he led a team to start the drilling process and hit gold near the Waainek Water Treatment Works a few hours later. According to Makana municipality, Groenewald said the idea was to log all the existing boreholes around town and merge them with the town's infrastructure. 'Millions and millions of litres of water underground' He would then select the most plausible boreholes in terms of their proximity to electricity and pipelines, and those would be blown clean with a rig and tested both for the yield and chemistry, it said in a statement. On Wednesday, the drilling rig was to be positioned at other sites with similar rock formations where it was expected that higher yields of water would be found at a lesser depth. "The aim is to drill at as many sites as possible to provide a sustainable alternative to bottled water which is an emergency stop-gap measure," explained Gift of the Givers founder Imtiaz Sooliman. READ: Karoo town asked to reduce water use to 50 litres a day amid drought Groenewald said many looked at the drought as a hopeless disaster, while others considered it scientifically - South Africa is in the worst drought in 220 years with a prediction of three more years of extremely low rainfall. "And then you can look at it from a third point, from a creation and Creator's point of view. He can fill the dam tonight. A miracle can happen," he insisted. "In SA at the moment we know the surface water is low, but underground God has stored millions and millions of litres of water. We need to know how to find it. We can see the cracks, we can see the fault zones, we can use magnetometers, we can use all the science in the worlds to find the lines that show the cracks. But God gives the water." KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Shocking scale of US drinking water crisis More than 1,000 water systems across the US have drinking water that fails safety standards for lead. India facing the worst water crisis in its history India is facing mass water shortages with more than 600 million people dealing with high to extreme water shortage according to a new report. Drinking water shortage on Langeoog Rising sea levels and hefty storm surges are threatening to contaminate the German island of Langeoog's freshwater lenses. Residents have accused the EU of failing to take sufficient action to tackle climate change. Kabul faces water crisis A shortage of rain, a booming population and wasteful consumption have drained Kabul's water basin and sparked a race to the bottom as households and businesses bore deeper and deeper wells in search of the precious resource. Snow has fallen in th... Scientists drill over 2km through ice layer in West Antarctica for first time ever For the first time, scientists in West Antarctica have drilled 2km through the ice sheet to the sediment below.

The experiment, which uses hot water, is aimed at finding out how the region might respond to a warming climate. India's polluted waters kill thousands Haldwani, a town in northern India, isn't the only Indian town with a clean water scarcity. 80 percent of India's surface water is polluted and each year thousands die due to water-borne diseases. Farmers in western Afghanistan are fleeing drought Farmers in western Afghanistan have abandoned their lands for makeshift tents on the rocky outskirts after a months-long drought devastated crops, livestock and water supplies. Serbia: Arsenic in drinking water The drinking water in parts of Serbia has been contaminated with arsenic for years. Nearly a million people are affected. The maximum allowed concentration of the carcinogenic toxin was exceeded by as much as 27 times. South Africa's struggle with drought With severe drought afflicting South Africa, a thirsty invasive plant species has almost drained the Atlantis Aquifer, one of the two natural groundwater reservoirs supplying Cape Town. Watch: Italian firefighters use planks of wood to rescue group from flooded river Firefighters in northern Italy rescued three people from a flooded river over the weekend using ropes and planks of wood. Human chain saves four people from rough sea Four saved from rough sea by forming a human chain, after a man fell into the water from the promenade in Redcar. Clean water for the Wayuu in Colombia A water shortage in northeastern Colombia is affecting the Wayuu people. Their children are particularly vulnerable. Small desalination plants may be the solution. Mission to Indian Ocean to carry video feeds A British scientific expedition to the depths of the Indian Ocean will be able to broadcast live video from submarines Drone video shows levee damaged in Calif. storm Officials in Northern California say a levee along a highway has breached and they are monitoring the rural area in case a highway gets flooded or train tracks are damaged. Iraq’s second city's waters have turned deadly Residents of the southern Iraqi oil hub of Basra are fighting a daily struggle to get safe drinking water due to the unprecedented levels of pollution at its main lifeline, Shatt al-Arab waterway. Numerous flood rescues east of Los Angeles Numerous flood rescues were reported in areas east of Los Angeles as heavy rain pounded California on Thursday. The desert resort city of Palm Springs urged residents to stay where they were because of flooded streets. Ice age: young Russians take the plunge in Moscow Ice swimming in Russia has long been associated with older, usually Speedo-clad, men but members of Moscow's "Walruses of the Capital" club are giving it a fashionable new image. Meridian Energy hydrology challenges in first half FY18 19 Oct 2018 - Meridian Energy (ASX:MEZ) saw significant hydrology challenges in the first half of the financial year, EBITDAF in the first half of 2018 was 7 per cent down on the prior year. Artist exhibits China's water pollution problem Chinese artist Brother Nut can point to some success from his Beijing exhibit that used 10,000 bottles of yellowish water to raise awareness of contaminated rural ground water, although it did not go down so well with Beijing authorities. Fluence awarded new water treatment contract 19 Nov 2018 - Water solutions company, Fluence Corporation (ASX:FLC) has been awarded a contract to deliver six MABR-based Aspinal packaged solutions in China in a new partnership with environmental firm Zhongzi Huaze. Sharks attracted to warm waters near power plant in Israel An industrial power plant in Israel has proved to be an unlikely hotspot for sharks. The hot water gushing into the sea is just what the fish need in what is becoming an increasingly challenging environment. The story of plastic It's hard to imagine life without plastic, but less than 70 years ago, it didn't even exist. Today, landfills and oceans around the world are filling up with the stuff that takes hundreds of years to decompose. Can we do without plastic? Ice is a lifeline for the world's coldest region Yakutia, in northeastern Siberia, is Russia's largest region and experiences the planet's coldest temperatures, but for the inhabitants of this remote place, the cold isn't an obstacle, it sustains their very lives. Braving -41 degrees Celsius, lo... Who's up for a swim? Man running and falling into water. Livin easy install smart shower Creating products and services that improve people’s lives where they use water. The importance of ice shelves Videographic looking at the importance of ice shelves. The polar ice caps are shrinking as the climate warms, leading to rising sea levels. Scientists say meltwater flowing into the oceans from the Greenland and Antarctic ice sheets could boost ex... Senex half-year production up 49 per cent 30 Jan 2019 - Oil and gas company, Senex (ASX:SXY) says first half FY19 production is up 49 per cent on the prior corresponding period with increases in both oil and gas production. Cut Anything with Wazer Wazer presents an affordable, desktop-scale waterjet cutter that slices through materials that other technologies like lasers and CNC mills can't cut.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.