Duncan Alfreds Researchers work on the 4kg ZACube-2 satellite. (DST) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The government, through the Department of Science and Technology, has affirmed a further commitment to the Maritime Domain Awareness satellite programme. In addition to funding of R16.5m, the department will pump another R27m into the programme over the next three years, department director general Phil Mjwara announced on Tuesday. South Africa's marine environment faces acute risks that require an eye in the sky. "The risk is very big and real. There were a couple of ships caught in our waters that were not supposed to be there and you have oil leaks that you have to investigate," deputy director general for technology and innovation Mmboneni Muofhe told News24 on Wednesday. READ: SA readies latest ocean-watching satellite for launch The department will fund the deployment of nanosatellites, known as CubeSats. Advances in technology mean these devices can deliver data at very low cost compared to larger satellites. Constellation of satellites ZACube-2, which is in development, is regarded as the most advanced in Africa and will be a precursor to the constellation of satellites to be used to patrol South Africa's coastal waters. "We all know the issue of poaching of our abalone and the illegal dumping of waste. With this satellite technology, you are able to have a sense of which ships are entering our waters and when transponders get switched off, there is reason to be concerned," said Muofhe.      He added that the satellites would also be able to detect impending natural phenomena. "They are also going to deal with natural risks such as algae blooms. If you pick this up in time, you can relocate your fish stocks where you do aquaculture." The South African Maritime Safety Authority (Samsa) currently has a mandate to observe, detect and report on South Africa's oceans, but the agency does not always have hardware available to conduct enforcement activities. "You need to know what you need to enforce. What Samsa does, is enhanced by what we do," Muofhe said. Data sovereignty He added that while there were several satellite providers from whom the government could simply obtain data, having local data sovereignty was vital both as a cost saver and for security. "Obviously, when you rent you pay and when you rent there are also conditions. "The satellite imagery is not only used for civilian purposes. Some of this imagery can be used for military purposes. Having your own data gives you data sovereignty. "If there is flooding, you don't want to get data from a satellite that passed over yesterday." While the first ocean monitoring satellite was launched under the Operation Phakisa programme in November 2013, the new device will give the government better data on the marine environment. "Today we have four satellites in space, and one dedicated to our oceans economy. We want to add at least eight more to increase our coverage to 24/7," said Muofhe.  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter What Would a Satellite City in Space Look Like? Our cities are evolving all of the time, with new technology shaping our daily lives. But, what if the cities of the future aren't even on Earth at all? Many are predicting that we'll eventually evacuate this planet, and start a new life in space. But, how would that work? And what would it look like? If we all moved to live on satellites in space, how would our lives change? Sky and Space Global responds to ASX query 12 Feb 2019 - Sky and Space Global (ASX:SAS) has responded to a request for financial information from the ASX regarding its recent revenue forecasts and the status of its nano-satellites. Space Junk Videographic illustrating the growing concern over space debris. Of the approximate 23,000 space objects in orbit, just 1,900 are active satellites. Iran satellite launch, which U.S. warned against, fails Iran's bid to launch a satellite has failed, Telecoms Minister Mohammad Javad Azari-Jahromi said on Tuesday, after it ignored U.S. warnings to avoid such activity. Brazil keeps eye on Amazon deforestation with satellites The vast Amazon forest may be hard to penetrate, posing a problem for authorities trying to stop illegal logging -- but there are still eyes in the sky keeping track of the destruction. For three decades, a group of researchers have been monitorin... Starlink shakeup casts doubts on Musk ambitions A management shakeup and an aggressive launch timeline illustrate how quickly Elon Musk wants to bring online SpaceX’s Starlink program, which is competing with OneWeb and Canada’s Telesat to be first to market with a new satellite-based Internet service. Japanese rocket lofts first UAE-made satellite A Japanese rocket successfully put into orbit the first satellite made in the United Arab Emirates. Launching a New Space Economy with Natalya Bailey (Accion Systems), Peter Beck (Rocket Labs) and Wil As rockets and satellites proliferate, Accion Systems' Natalya Bailey, Peter Beck of Rocket Labs, and Will Marshall from Planet will discuss how a new space economy is being built with room for nations and startups alike. Audacy provides a communication network for space Space communications startup creating first commercial inter-satellite data relay network for continuous connectivity to satellites. Audacy provides a communication network for space Space communications startup creating first commercial inter-satellite data relay network for continuous connectivity to satellites. Deep sea robots reveal mineral riches in the abyss Scientists from the University of Bergen in Norway are using remotely operated vehicles (ROVs) to explore thousands of metres deep in the ocean. Audacy provides a communication network for space Space communications startup creating first commercial inter-satellite data relay network for continuous connectivity to satellites. North Korea continuing nuclear program - UN report North Korea has not stopped its nuclear and missile programs in violation of United Nations sanctions, according to a confidential U.N. report seen by Reuters on Friday. U.S. detects new activity at North Korean missile factory U.S. spy satellites have detected renewed activity at the North Korean factory that produced the country’s first intercontinental ballistic missiles capable of reaching the United States, according to a senior U.S. official. Japanese space probe arrives at distant asteroid A Japanese space probe arrived at an asteroid over 180 million miles from Earth on Wednesday after a three-and-a half year journey on a mission to seek the origins of life. NASA's camera melts during a rocket launch Bill Ingalls' camera melted while he was shooting the launch of SpaceX Falcon 9, which carried twin satellites in a joint mission called GRACE-FO by NASA and GFZ. The CIA Used to Drop Photos From Space and Catch Them With Planes There was a time when taking photographs meant using film, and that applied to spy satellites as well. So how did the pictures make it to Earth? Elon Musk's SpaceX rocket launch lights up California sky Elon Musk's SpaceX turned heads in California when it lit up the night sky after a rocket was launched propelling 10 satellites into orbit.
Witnesses were both puzzled and alarmed by the illumination at around 5.30pm in Los Angeles.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.