Tania Broughton, Correspondent Former provincial police spin-doctor Vincent Mdunge. (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The chairperson of the KwaZulu-Natal parole board and a social worker are expected to be two of four witnesses who will testify in support of former KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Vincent Mdunge's bid to get out of jail. Mdunge - who is serving a five-year prison sentence for fraud and forgery - made a brief appearance before Durban Regional Court Magistrate Sophie Reddy on Thursday. As with a previous appearance, he was dressed in a smart suit and tie. He was accompanied by three armed correctional services officers, who appeared to be protecting him. Mdunge complained that his application to be released on parole was "taking too long". Read: Former KZN cop spin doctor Vincent Mdunge wants out of jail "I filed it in November last year. I believe I am being unduly prejudiced," he said. He asked that the chairperson, the social workers and "two others" be subpoenaed to attend the inquiry, which will now take place at the end of February. Mdunge began serving his sentence in 2017. He was convicted in November 2014 and sentenced in May 2015 for using a fake matric certificate to gain employment in the SA Police Service and advance his career by studying through the University of SA (Unisa). He lost appeals in both the High Court and Supreme Court of Appeal and went to jail in August 2017. He wants his sentence converted to correctional supervision on the grounds that he is a "model prisoner". Whistleblowers should still come forward says Hawks after Bosasa arrests ormer Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi, former correctional services CFO Patrick Gillingham, and Bosasa official Andries van Tonder, on Wednesday briefly appeared in the dock at the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court. WATCH: Hundreds of Bushiri supporters picket outside court Hundreds of supporters of self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri gathered outside the Commercial Crimes Court in Pretoria on Monday morning. 

Bushiri and his wife appeared briefly after being arrested on Friday for fraud and money laundering. WATCH: Agrizzi, van Tonder and Gillingham appear in dock The Hawks on Wednesday arrested six suspects on allegations of corruption, money laundering and fraud relating to Bosasa. A warrant of arrest has been issued for a seventh suspect. WATCH: JHB high court evacuated after prisoners escape Gauteng police have confirmed that the Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg has been evacuated following the escape of two prisoners on Friday morning. WATCH: Duduzane Zuma's culpable homicide trial postponed to March The culpable homicide case against Duduzane Zuma was postponed to March 26 in the Randburg Magistrate's Court on Thursday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.