Canny Maphanga While almost 10 million eligible voters here at home have not yet registered to vote in the upcoming national elections, some South Africans abroad have braved the cold to play their part. WATCH: 10 Million Eligible Voters Are Unregistered - IEC Meet 21-year-old Katelin Hogue who visited the South African High Commission in Ottawa, Canada, to register, despite the -18°C weather.  (Supplied, South African High Commission)  "The weather was very cold; the roads were snowy, and the traffic was busy. But going through all of it was worth it to get registered," she told News24. Hogue has been living outside of South Africa for 15 years and still makes it a priority to vote. "It is important to me that I vote because, even though I may not live in South Africa anymore, I still want the best for people who do live there. "It is still home to me." ALSO READ: More than 80% of new voters younger than 30, but 6 million still unregistered – IEC Dr Maatje Scheepers, 35, and her husband Colin Joynt, 42, have been living outside of SA for six and a half years. They too do not want to miss the opportunity to vote.  (Supplied, South African High Commission) "This is our first Canadian winter experience and, although it is beautiful, we are still learning what this cold truly means. "We braved the cold because, no matter what the weather was doing, we didn't want to miss the opportunity to register to vote," she explained. Scheepers and her husband hope that their vote will help create a better future for all South Africans. "To us, voting provides an opportunity for citizens to make their voices heard. It (voting) affords us the right as South African citizens to choose a government that would help South Africa grow and prosper as a nation," she said. WATCH: Political parties say they are ready for the coming elections Political parties say that they are ready for the coming elections. Speaking to News24 at the IEC elections launch at the Gallagher Convention Centre, the leaders also urged those eligible to vote to go register on January 26 and 27. US thaws from Arctic deep freeze The city of Minneapolis is still covered in snow as the brutal cold spell that paralyzed the US Midwest eases, with forecasts predicting a rapid thaw. Deep freeze grips Chicago, cancels trains Temperatures in Chicago were below minus 20 degrees Wednesday, with wind chill making the air feel as cold as negative 57 degrees. The bitter cold affected train travel, with Amtrak canceling all trains into and out of Chicago.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.