Richard van Rensburg Vixey. (Photo: Facebook/Gemma Holdway) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A British student and
her family took in a vixen whose mom had abandoned it – and now Vixey is part
of the family. She’s stolen the hearts
of her adoptive humans and also seems to love her canine siblings. Gemma Holdway’s dad
found Vixey and four siblings under a haystack while cleaning out a barn on the
family’s farm in Bath, Somerset. The babies were just
two days old so at first he thought he’d found kittens. But Gemma (19), who
studies animal science and management, took one look at the babies and realised
they were foxes. The Holdways feared the
babies would die if their mom didn’t return. They even scrutinised CCTV footage
of the barn to see if the mom would come back but there was no sign of her.
They suspect she’d been run over on the nearby busy road or had met with some
other unfortunate fate. Gemma organised for the
foxes to be taken to a nearby animal hospital where they could be taken care of
until they were ready to be released into the wild. But when Vixey, the runt of
the litter, opened her eyes on day five and spotted Gemma the little fox “imprinted”
on the young woman. Imprinting is a key
phase in some animals’ lives when they form an immediate bond with a parent, or
someone or something they think is their parent. “None of us realised it
at the time as it happened so quickly, but once they open their eyes that’s it.
Whoever they see first is mom,” Gemma told Happiest. So, while three members
of the litter were successfully released into the wild, Gemma adopted Vixen and
raised her by hand. Someone else adopted the fifth fox.  Once she’d decided to
keep Vixey, Gemma introduced her to the family’s dogs – Jack Russells Raisin,
Nidge and Polar Bear, and Luna the Labrador. “Vixey follows the dogs
everywhere, copying what they do,” Gemma says. Raisin is apparently the leader
of the pack. “Luna in particular was
wary at first. She didn’t quite know what Vixey was and was unsure when she’d
try to play with her. Now they absolutely love each other. They’re the very
best of friends.” Of course many people
who see the odd little furry family immediately think of the Disney movie The
Fox and the Hound. Gemma feeds Vixey, goes
for walks with her before breakfast and sometimes even gives her a bath. But
she realises the fox is essentially a wild animal and so Vixey has the freedom
of the farm. The property has been “fox-proofed” to keep Vixey in and predators
out. But at the end of a day
roaming about the farm Vixey always returns home, where she either sleeps on
the couch or with her adoptive mom on the bed. Though Gemma’s chosen
to keep Vixey for her own safety – the little fox won’t make it in the wild –
she strongly discourages people from keeping wild animals as pets as they
belong in nature.  Sources: independent.ie,
happiest.net,
YouTube, Facebook   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.