Kamva Somdyala WATCH: Betty's Bay fire victim shares heartbreaking experience of the blaze A Betty's Bay resident has spoken out about the trauma of losing her home in a fire that raged through the town at the weekend. Residents in Betty's Bay are picking up the pieces after the fire. (Kamva Somdyala, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The man accused of starting the devastating Overstrand fire, Sheldon April, has been granted bail in the Caledon Magistrate's Court. April is accused of starting the New Year's Day fire that ripped through the Betty's Bay area, destroying over 30 houses in the process. It is believed that April shot a flare, which started the fire, during New Year's Eve celebrations. He was arrested on January 3. On Friday, April was granted R5 000 bail and will be under house arrest at his sister's home in Elsies River, NPA spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila confirmed. At his bail application proceedings early this month, TimesLIVE reported that April, who has previous run-ins with the law, tried to intimidate state witnesses, including eyewitness Heinrich Adonis. One of April's bail conditions is to not contact any eyewitnesses. April, 34, faces charges which include contravening the National Environmental Management Act. He faces up to 20 years in prison. The case has been postponed to March 8. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH- Aerial footage shows Lion's Head fire aftermath Aerial footage shows Lion's Head fire aftermath taken from one of the Working on fire Helicopters WATCH: Fire engulfs Lion's Head Families living in Sea Point, Cape Town evacuated their homes on Sunday evening as the flames that engulfed the lower slopes of Lion's Head near Quarry Hill were coming down on them. WATCH: Video shows razed homes after fire sweeps through Hartenbos, Mossel Bay Two houses have been destroyed in a blaze in Mossel Bay's Hartenbos Heuwels. WATCH: Firefighters leave Overstrand with song and dance The firefighters who tirelessly battled to bring a raging fire in the Overstrand area under control have held a parade to thank the community for their support. WATCH: Fire rescue Bambi trotting on the road to recovery At just a few months old, a rescued baby Cape Grysbok has touched the hearts of the many residents of the Cape overstrand area, which has recently been underthreat by a devastating fire for two weeks. 'The fire was higher than the roof here'- Hermanus farmer "Camphill, you've got 30 minutes until that fire is on you." These were the chilling words that came through as a Hermanus farm community, housing 54 intellectually disabled patients, was forced to evacuate. WATCH: At least 31 houses destroyed in Overstrand wildfires; video shows devastation in Betty's Bay At least 31 houses have been completely destroyed and 28 partially damaged by wildfires on the coastal Overstrand region in the Western Cape.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.