Jan Gerber Good party leader Patricia de Lille announces the party's manifesto. (Jan Gerber/News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Good is proposing to turn government on its head and also wants reach out to the "vast majority of people who are not racist", the party's leader, Patricia de Lille, pledged. De Lille introduced her eight-week-old party's manifesto on Tuesday in Cape Town, without going into much detail. The event was also broadcast on Facebook. De Lille started off drawing a line in the sand against racism, saying the "politics of racism" was alienating South Africans from a common identity. "Our country needs leaders with the courage to tackle socialised and structural racism and sexism – and those leaders have been lacking," she said. She acknowledged that it was often difficult to speak about racism in South Africa, but said political leaders had to have the courage to do so. "Good will lead South Africans to truly build a future that knows and understands our past, but does not have to be trapped by it," she said. De Lille said that, in 2017, 65% of South Africans lived in urban areas, and that it was predicted that 80% of South Africans would do so very soon. Spatial justice "That is why Good is proposing to turn government on its head – taking power away from a central system put in place by apartheid and, instead, devolving functions to towns and cities," she said. Exactly how this would be achieved, given that the Constitution and other legislation delineates the functions of the three spheres of government, remained unclear. Good secretary general Brett Herron admitted that cities did not have the powers that the party believed they should have, which include transport, economic development, policing and dealing with climate change impacts. Good's manifesto can be divided into four main areas: spatial justice – which De Lille views as her party's main unique selling point – economic justice, social justice and environmental justice. GOOD’s @brettherron @PatriciaDeLille and @Leratolethato announces the party’s manifesto. De Lille says they’ll tackle racism. “Our country needs leaders with courage to tackle structural racism in our society.” @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/IUiNqzojum De Lille also weighed in on the land debate, saying land restitution had been "painfully slow", but that she didn't believe the problem lay with Section 25 of the Constitution. "It is scandalous that expropriations are still being conducted in terms of the apartheid-era Expropriation Act of 1975," she said. She said they supported Section 25 in its current form, which already allowed for expropriation without compensation. "Our policies and plan to fix South Africa continue to be constructed and we will update these as we make progress," De Lille said. She said the full version of Good's plan would be on their website www.forgood.org.za soon.  WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral. Patricia de Lille on her lowest time in her politics career The past 18 months have seen battle royal in the DA in Cape Town, which reached a turning point on Wednesday when Patricia de Lille resigned as mayor and DA member amid a criminal investigation against her. 'It's time for a new political order' - De Lille announces new political party Former Cape Town mayor and DA member Patricia de Lille says she is ready to serve her country under a new political movement. WATCH: Patricia de Lille talks about her future and her journey as Cape Town mayor Her battle with the DA was like an abusive relationship, Patricia de Lille says. And the best decision when caught in such a situation is to walk away, "because it's not going to change". WATCH: Julius Malema on changing the constitution regarding land expropriation On 13 November in parliament, during the first day of the Joint Constitutional Review Committee deliberating a draft report on the possible review of Section 25 of the Constitution to allow expropriation of land without compensation. WATCH: Cope's Lekota, Steve Hofmeyr unite against 'fascist formation' BLF Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota has labelled the BLF a fascist formation, insisting that its leader, Andile Mngxitama, be imprisoned and rehabilitated for his calls at the weekend for the killing of white people in South Africa. PODCAST: Zuma's nine lost years? Ramaphosa shouldn't forget — he was there AUDIO: 2019 is off to a flying start, from Bosasa and the endless inquiries to Solly Msimanga stepping down as Tshwane mayor and electioneering getting into full swing.

This week on POLOTIKI, we discuss former president Jacob Zuma's legacy. WATCH: 'EFF is the only alternative' - supporter at manifesto launch Hundreds have filled Giant Stadium in Shoshanguve, north of Pretoria ahead of the Economic Freedom Fighters manifesto launch. WATCH: 'Our land and jobs now!' - EFF launches election manifesto Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema on Saturday launched the party's election manifesto at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.