Kamva Somdyala Parts of the beachside resort caught alight around 04:00 on Tuesday. (Kamva Somdyala, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The CEO of Tintswalo Lodges says she cannot give an answer as to whether the main lodge at the Tintswalo Resort on Chapman’s Peak Drive near Hout Bay will be rebuilt. Parts of the beachside resort caught alight around 04:00 on Tuesday morning, with the fire eventually spreading to the main building. "The main lodge is gone. It's gone… the kitchen, living room area," CEO Lisa Goosen told News24 on Tuesday. Goosen, however, said that no rooms had been affected and that guests had been evacuated immediately. No injuries have been reported. Asked whether rebuilding would take place soon, Goosen said the resort's management would meet to discuss options, as there was "a lot to consider". "The lodge doesn't exist. It's burned to the ground," she said, repeating her earlier statement. Goosen added that she had "no idea" what had caused the fire, and said an investigation would get to the bottom of it. At around 06:40 on Tuesday it was reported that the main building was still burning, but that the fire had been contained. The fire had been largely extinguished when News24 arrived at the scene at 10:00. City of Cape Town fire services said 26 firefighters had responded to the blaze, including five fire engines, two water tankers and one rescue vehicle. The cause of the fire is yet to be determined, said spokesperson Theo Layne. TimesLive, meanwhile, reported that guests had been evacuated to a nearby hotel. Four years ago, the lodge was also affected by a fire which stretched around most of the peninsula. The property reopened eight months later. WATCH- Aerial footage shows Lion's Head fire aftermath Aerial footage shows Lion's Head fire aftermath taken from one of the Working on fire Helicopters WATCH: Fire engulfs Lion's Head Families living in Sea Point, Cape Town evacuated their homes on Sunday evening as the flames that engulfed the lower slopes of Lion's Head near Quarry Hill were coming down on them. WATCH: Video shows razed homes after fire sweeps through Hartenbos, Mossel Bay Two houses have been destroyed in a blaze in Mossel Bay's Hartenbos Heuwels. WATCH: Firefighters leave Overstrand with song and dance The firefighters who tirelessly battled to bring a raging fire in the Overstrand area under control have held a parade to thank the community for their support. WATCH: Fire rescue Bambi trotting on the road to recovery At just a few months old, a rescued baby Cape Grysbok has touched the hearts of the many residents of the Cape overstrand area, which has recently been underthreat by a devastating fire for two weeks. 'The fire was higher than the roof here'- Hermanus farmer "Camphill, you've got 30 minutes until that fire is on you." These were the chilling words that came through as a Hermanus farm community, housing 54 intellectually disabled patients, was forced to evacuate. WATCH: Betty's Bay fire victim shares heartbreaking experience of the blaze A Betty's Bay resident has spoken out about the trauma of losing her home in a fire that raged through the town at the weekend. WATCH: At least 31 houses destroyed in Overstrand wildfires; video shows devastation in Betty's Bay At least 31 houses have been completely destroyed and 28 partially damaged by wildfires on the coastal Overstrand region in the Western Cape. WATCH: Cape pupil awarded for matriculating after surviving deadly fire Lance Minnies came close to losing his life in a deadly 2016 fire and almost gave up on his studies when he recovered. But it was the hope for a better future and the support of caring people at his school that pulled him through. WATCH: Western Cape firefighters end gruelling day with uplifting song A group of firefighters returned to their base at the Crassula hall in Betty's Bay on Friday, with song and dance. WATCH: Overstrand fire rages on Air support has been brought in to battle a large fire in the Overstrand area in the Western Cape. The fire has devastated areas close to Betty's Bay, Pringle Bay, Hangklip and Rooi Els. WATCH:  Fire rages out of control near Hermanus Firefighters from the Overstrand Municipality have spent the last 24 hours fighting an out of control fire about 10km from Hermanus in the Western Cape. WATCH: Firefighter fight blaze to save hectares of Paarl fynbos destroyed in fire At least 500ha of 15-year-old fynbos was lost in the fire that swept through part of Paarl mountain, the Drakenstein municipality said as they scaled down on operations on Friday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.