Pelane Phakgadi (Gallo Images) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The elections are roughly three months away but the DA already has its sights set on a coalition. According to the party's premier candidate in Limpopo, Jacques Smalle, coalition governance is the way to go this year. "We will work with those who understand and accept our policies and of course we will leave ample of space for consultations before making decisions," said Smalle. The premier hopeful said the current political landscape left voters with an open choice. He told News24 that his party had gained tremendous support over the past five years and believed it could form coalitions with other parties to take over from the ANC. "When we evaluate our current membership, we are of the view that we will see the ANC below 50%, and that will be even more evident after the 2021 local government elections when we take more municipalities into our governance," said Smalle. "We are one of the fastest growing in rural communities, and we are looking forward to the elections and its outcomes... we see ourselves actually gaining more seats and not losing any," he added. READ: 'This may be President Ramaphosa's last' SONA - Maimane Smalle accused the current provincial government, under Premier Stan Mathabatha, of maladministration and leaving finances of the province prone to "looting" by some officials and MECs. "We are the only alternative offering proper governance and to [get] rid of corruption". He warned that those who wanted to work with his party, that the DA's policies would not be "sold" for mere votes. Smalle claimed that the provincial and national government did not help DA-led municipalities with finances to ensure the provision of service delivery. READ: DA names Tshwane mayoral candidate to succeed Solly Msimanga "We have Modimolle-Mookgophong municipality which we inherited from the ANC in a bad financial state, and the province and national government does not want to help," he said. That municipality is currently placed under administration due to "maladministration" and "dysfunctionality". The municipality failed to pay employee salaries and service providers, and owes Eskom more than R200m- the power utility's highest debtor. In May last year, the Limpopo Provincial Executive Committee (Exco) said the municipality was technically bankrupt and owed the Magalies Water Board more than R12m. Smalle blamed the ANC led government of not helping the municipality with its challenges when it initially asked for aid. ALSO READ: Tax revolt both irresponsible and highly unlikely, say economists He was adamant that his party would be voted into power and that he would be premier and warned that "when that happens", he will not rest until officials and politicians are held accountable for "looting" and the corruption in the province and local governments. He mentioned the VBS Mutual Bank saga which involved large-scale looting of R1.2bn. Some mayors, municipal officials ANC Limpopo deputy chairperson Florence Radzilani and her treasurer Danny Msiza were allegedly implicated. The two top ANC officials have since "stepped aside" from party activities until their names have been cleared.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.