Ntwaagae Seleka (File, Stock Image) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A man, who was sought for more than a year in connection with the murder of a school teacher in the Southern Cape, could have more charges added to his name for at least four killings committed in the Western Cape. Police spokesperson Captain Malcolm Pojie said Brian Linos George Mudyiwayana, 32, was nabbed on February 9. The Zimbabwean man was initially wanted for the murder of a school teacher from Da Gamaskop in Mossel Bay, in 2017. The teacher, Lungelwa Dangatye, was found in her home. Her hands were tied behind her back and she had severe head injuries. It is alleged that DNA analysis linked Mudyiwayana to the murder. "At the time, evidence could not link [anyone] to the murder. But, unrelenting effort by the investigator, through DNA analysis, has led to the arrest of Mudyiwayana," Pojie said. 'Marathon investigation' Further investigation led the detective to believe that Mudyiwayana could be responsible for about four murders committed between 2016 and 2019 in four Western Cape towns: Wolseley, Worcester, Swellendam and De Doorns. "In a marathon investigation that started in 2017 with the murder of the teacher, the probe by a Western Cape detective has lifted the lid on several other unsolved murders in various parts of the province," Pojie said. He added that the investigations were continuing and new leads were being followed up. Anyone who has information that could assist in solving the murders can contact Crime Stop on 086 001 0111 or SMS Crime Line on 32211. Mudyiwayana is expected to appear in in the Swellendam Magistrate's Court on Tuesday.  WATCH: Businessman Patrice Motsepe says it's right that politicians hold companies to account He says however, having relatives in very high positions in government justifiably raises perceptions of favouritism. He remains adamant that he is not being favoured by his relationship with President Cyril Ramaphosa and Energy Minister Jeff Radebe. ANALYSIS: In a way this is the end of Bosasa, says Adriaan Basson News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and Opinions Editor Alet Janse van Rensburg unpack the latest developments in the Bosasa scandal, after the company announced it was under voluntary liquidation. Watch. WATCH: Striking Bosasa workers didn't know about liquidation Workers employed by facilities management company Bosasa, now known as African Global Operations, staged a demonstration outside its Mogale City head office on Monday - minutes after the company announced its voluntary liquidation. WATCH: The problem isn't plastic, but single use - lid of a take away coffee cup equal to 8 straws The Recup initiative aims to bring an end to the use of single use take away coffee cups, which are often more harmful to the environment than straws. WATCH: Man uses broken wiper blades to manually wipe windscreen A man who opted to manually wipe his windscreen, using his white Fiat Uno's broken wiper blade, has been the source of much amusement online. WATCH: Ash clouds still visible above Medupi Clouds of ash could be seen above the Medupi plant in Limpopo on Thursday. WATCH: Roaring trade for some small businesses amidst load shedding gloom Last Sunday Eskom implemented load shedding for the first time since December 2019. While this has resulted in major inconvenience and loss of income for ordinary South Africans and most businesses, some are seeing a sharp increase in trade as a dire WATCH: Buses burned, windows shattered in CPUT violence Vandals destroyed two buses and damaged buildings at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology's Bellville campus in the early hours of Wednesday morning. WATCH: Bakkie goes swimming while trying to pull boat out of the water in Cape Town A man who was pulling a boat out of the water at the Oceana Power Boat Club in Granger Bay, Cape Town, got more than he bargained for at the weekend when his vehicle also had to be towed out of the water.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.