Kaveel Singh WATCH- Durban metro police officer among 3 dead in CBD shooting A metro police officer is among three people who were killed in a shooting near the KwaZulu-Natal High Court in Durban on Monday morning. A mortuary van at the scene of the Durban shooting. (Kaveel Singh, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A fourth person has died in hospital following a shooting in the Durban CBD on Monday that involved a metro police officer, police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said on Tuesday. She said that four others were still receiving hospital care. Earlier in the day, the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) said they were investigating whether the officer was responsible for the shooting that claimed the now four lives, including his own. IPID spokesperson Moses Dlamini said there was also speculation as to whether the officer turned the gun on himself. Investigation He said it was thought that the officer's gun was thrown out the first-floor window of his apartment. "This is [obviously] unusual for a person who shot themselves. We are currently investigating to determine if the policeman indeed shot anyone. Also, if his gun was used, was he the one who shot those people," he said earlier. He said IPID was conducting a preliminary investigation. "At this stage, we do not know if the policeman is responsible for shooting, because the firearm appears to have been thrown out the window." Bloodbath The 39-year-old constable together with two others were found dead in his apartment. Five others who were at the scene were also shot and injured while another person escaped unharmed. Investigators were seen leaving Baker Street with a glock 17 firearm, a standard issue for metro police officers. Rescue Care spokesperson Garrith Jamieson, whose team was one of the first responders, described the scene as an "absolute bloodbath".   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.