Nosipiwo Manona, Correspondent Controversial Nigerian pastor Timothy Omotoso.  (Photo by Gallo Images / Netwerk24 / Lulama Zenzile) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Rape-accused pastor Timothy Omotoso and his two co-accused made a brief appearance in the Eastern Cape High Court in Port Elizabeth on Monday morning. Legal representatives confirmed their arrangements to have the matter postponed to April 16. State advocate Nceba Ntelwa said they had agreed to postpone the matter "to allow the accused's legal team to file an application to the Constitutional Court". Omotoso's lawyer Peter Daubermann has escalated the appeal in his bid to have Judge Mandela Makaula recused from the case. WATCH: Witness says she was 14 when pastor Timothy Omotoso started molesting her The first witness has taken the stand of the trial of controversial pastor Timothy Omotoso, taking place in Port Elizabeth. Nigerian Pastor Timothy Omotoso seated alongside his co-accused Zukisa Sitho and Lusanda Sulani. #sabcnews #OmotosoTrial pic.twitter.com/BeUqq053xw Daubermann accused Makaula of "being biased" following the testimony of the first witness, Cheryl Zondi. He claimed he was "too friendly" with her. Three prior attempts to have Makaula recused failed last year. Read: Omotoso's lawyer attempts to have case thrown out of court After Makaula rejected the initial two applications, Daubermann escalated the matter to the Supreme Court of Appeals, which later also rejected the application, citing no probability of its success. Makaula informed the court that Daubermann had indicated that they would be ready for the trial to resume in the third term. "The matter has been tentatively postponed to April, pending the outcome of the Constitutional Court application," said Makaula. Omotoso and his co-accused, Lusanda Sulani and Zukiswa Sitho, are facing 63 charges and 34 alternative charges, which include rape, sexual assault and racketeering. Supporters of #TimothyOmotoso and those for the alleged victims braving the rain outside the PE High Court #OmotosoTrial @HeraldPE pic.twitter.com/VMPyFzfdWW  WATCH: Hundreds of Bushiri supporters picket outside court Hundreds of supporters of self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri gathered outside the Commercial Crimes Court in Pretoria on Monday morning. 

Bushiri and his wife appeared briefly after being arrested on Friday for fraud and money laundering. WATCH: Prophet Bushiri takes responsibility for deadly church stampede Prophet Shepherd Bushiri on Monday appeared at the CRL Rights Commission hearing looking into the stampede that claimed three lives at the Enlightened Christian Gathering Church (ECG) in Pretoria. WATCH: The church is bigger than Bushiri - ECG Church spokesperson Prophet Bushiri's Enlightened Christian Gathering church briefed the media on events following a deadly stampede at the church on December 28, 2018.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.