Kaveel Singh The woman who allegedly abandoned her newborn baby in a storm drain in Durban last week has been charged with attempted murder, the Ntuzuma Magistrate's Court heard on Wednesday. The 32-year-old mother who cannot be named to protect the child was arrested on Monday after going to hospital for a gynaecological ailment, prosecutor Jenisha Sewbaran said. The woman did not appear on Wednesday, instead a hospital note was served to the court citing health reasons for her absence. She is expected to attend court on February 27. WATCH: Rescuers save newborn baby girl in three-hour operation A newborn baby girl has been saved after emergency services conducted a three hour mammoth rescue from a storm drain pipe in Durban. The baby girl, whose survival has been called a "miracle", was rescued from the storm drain pipe after emergency services conducted a mammoth three-hour operation. This was after the child's cries were heard around 07:30 last Monday on the corner of Barracuda Road and Herring Way in Newlands East. Soon after her rescue, the baby was taken to Chief Albert Luthuli Hospital where she was treated and was found to be in good health. "She has been awake, responsive and crying. Her glucose and sugar levels are good. She is stable enough for [a] transfer to base hospital so the social aspect can be sorted," Dr Timothy Hardcastle previously told journalists who were at the hospital shortly after the child's rescue. Upon her arrival at the hospital, it was said that the biggest challenge was only her low temperature. She was unofficially named Sibanisethu, or "Our Light", by residents of the neighbourhood where she was found, before being taken into special care, the provincial department of health said. WATCH: Durban baby rescued from storm drain a 'miracle' - doctor The newborn baby that was rescued from a stormwater pipe in Durban on Monday morning is in good health, her attending physician has said. Newborn baby rescued from storm drain The infant was pulled alive from the pipe after a three-hour operation in Durban. Newborn baby rescued from storm drain in SAfrica Rescue workers in South Africa pulled a newborn baby from a storm drain in a four-hour operation that ended with applause and cheers from onlookers. WATCH: Rescue workers attempt to save baby from drain pipe A dramatic rescue of an apparent newborn is underway in Durban after passerby's heard the child's cries on Monday morning. Newborn baby girl pulled out of South African storm drain Emergency services were called after cries were heard coming from the drain in Newlands East, near Durban in South Africa. Following a three-hour rescue operation, police are now investigating how the baby got there in the first place. Congolese Ebola survivor gives birth to healthy baby In a rare case that's surprised doctors, a pregnant woman who was infected with ebola virus has now given birth to a healthy baby. IVF linked to slightly higher risk of maternal complications: study A new study suggests women who become pregnant using in-vitro fertilization appear to have a slightly higher risk of severe birth-related complications. Complications include post-partum bleeding, admission to an intensive care unit, infection of ... How Malawi reduced infant mortality Every year 2.6m babies around the world don't survive beyond a month, but in Malawi the number is dropping. Detectives hunt murderer of newborn girl found in park bushes Detectives are hunting the murderer of a newborn baby girl who suffered multiple head injuries before she was found in the bushes of a town centre park. WATCH: Newborn found in bin might get a new lease on life An abandoned KwaZulu-Natal newborn found in the bin might soon have a new place to call home. Watch. Baby found in shopping bag in London in freezing conditions A newborn baby is being cared for in a hospital after she was found in a shopping bag in a London park. Newborn found dead in Phoenix Amazon facility Phoenix police say a newborn baby girl was found dead in a women's restroom inside an Amazon distribution center. Investigators have located and spoken with the mother. 9 dangerous things parents do when bathing their baby When you know exactly what not to do and the potential dangers, you can begin to focus on making bathtime fun and even educational. Watch the video below for our tips on 9 things to watch out for when bathing your little one. Cat babysitter! Cat soothing baby to sleep   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.