Correspondent WATCH: Hundreds of Bushiri supporters picket outside court Hundreds of supporters of self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri gathered outside the Commercial Crimes Court in Pretoria on Monday morning. 

Bushiri and his wife appeared briefly after being arrested on Friday for fraud and money laundering. Top defence Advocate Barry Roux (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Embattled self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri has acquired the services of top defence advocate Barry Roux, Sowetan reported on Tuesday. According to the publication, Roux is expected to defend Bushiri, 35, and his wife Mary, 37, against charges of fraud and money-laundering. Roux gained some fame when he defended murder-convicted former Paralympian Oscar Pistorius in 2014, after the world-famous athlete shot and killed his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp on Valentine's Day in 2013. His catchphrase "I put it to you" became instantly recognisable and the punchline of many jokes and memes. Roux's daily fee is reportedly around R50 000. Bushiri and his wife were arrested in Rustenburg on Friday, on charges of fraud and money-laundering, News24 reported. They made a brief appearance in the Pretoria Commercial Crimes Court on Monday, before the case was postponed to allow the State to carry out further investigations. Bushiri and his wife, who remain in custody, will return to court on Wednesday. Contravention of organised crime act A large group of Bushiri church congregants protested outside the court before the couple's appearance. Among those were Black First Land First (BLF) leader Andile Mngxitama, who said: "As BLF, we stand with the major one [Shepherd Bushiri]. This is a systematic attack on the church and the prophet." Addressing hundreds of Bushiri's congregants, who sang and demonstrated outside the court, Mngxitama said the BLF was the only political movement that had come to show support to the self-proclaimed prophet and his wife. "We are the only ones who have come out, because we are on the side of the truth. We know that the major one is being prosecuted by this government because he is a black man who is successful out of his own effort and his blessings from his God," Mngxitama said. Hawks spokesperson Hangwani Mulaudzi said the case against the couple was linked to alleged offences of fraud and money-laundering, as well as the contravention of the Prevention of Organised Crime Act (POCA), which had been committed from 2015. The contravention of the Act was in relation to Exchange Control Regulations relating to foreign currency of $1 147 200 (around R15m). City Press reported on Sunday that the Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU), a branch of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), had joined the legal fight against the controversial couple and had filed a preservation order seeking to seize their assets, pending the finalisation of the criminal case against them. Two sources familiar with developments reportedly said the AFU had already filed an application at the High Court in Pretoria, seeking its permission to seize the Bushiris' luxury houses and cars, as well as the self-styled prophet's Gulfstream private jet, which is parked in a private hangar at Lanseria Airport outside Johannesburg. According to The Sowetan, Roux will represent the couple at their bail application on Wednesday.  Find the story in your favourite newspaper on Tuesday. pic.twitter.com/iiQd2qyPBY  KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: No injuries or fatalities in South African factory fire Johannesburg emergency services spent hours trying to contain a fire that broke out in a glue and paper factory in Kya Sands, Johannesburg, on Wednesday morning. WATCH: Thunder, lighting and strong winds batter Johannesburg and surrounds A severe thunderstorm, strong winds and heavy downpours battered parts of Johannesburg on Monday afternoon.
Many trees were uprooted and structures damaged. No major injuries were reported. Grave dilemma: S.African cities short of cemetery space In Johannesburg, land is a hot topic, even for the dead. Population growth, migration to urban areas and an influx of foreigners has put huge pressure on land in urban areas. Adding to the problem is a cultural resistance to the practice of cremat... WATCH: Shady character steals designer sunglasses A thief with sticky fingers was able to steal two pairs of designer sunglasses from an optical store in Johannesburg last Friday. WATCH: Pedestrian mowed down by taxi driving in the wrong lane A taxi driving on the wrong side of the road knocked over a pedestrian in morning traffic in Sharonlea, Johannesburg on Monday. WATCH: Cope's Lekota, Steve Hofmeyr unite against 'fascist formation' BLF Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota has labelled the BLF a fascist formation, insisting that its leader, Andile Mngxitama, be imprisoned and rehabilitated for his calls at the weekend for the killing of white people in South Africa. WATCH: New footage shows armed men fleeing after Joburg M1 shootout New footage has emerged giving further insight into the shooting on Johannesburg's M1 on Monday. WATCH: Firefighters run Soweto Marathon in 18kg gear to honour fallen colleagues Three Johannesburg firefighters ran the Old Mutual Soweto Marathon on Sunday in bunker gear, to commemorate their fallen colleagues. WATCH: Door of Hope: A new beginning for abandoned babies The Door of Hope organisation has taken care of more than 1500 children since it was established in 1999.

One of the ways they take in children is through the "baby bin" - a hole in the wall were parents can leave their unwanted babies. WATCH: Lehae land invaders vow to stay Residents of Lehae, south of Johannesburg, who invaded vacant RDP houses said they will not be shaken after the police evicted them and took the doors of their now homes. WATCH: House robbers make off with goods, cash worth R200 000 A family locked themselves in a room while a gang of house robbers in Johannesburg helped themselves to goods valued at R200 000 in a matter of minutes. WATCH: Bonang Matheba's pays the taxman, matter struck off roll The Specialized Commercial Crimes Court in Johannesburg has on Tuesday, struck off the roll the tax evasion charges against TV personality and Businesswoman Bonang Matheba.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.