Angelo Julies and Worcester Standard team The abandoned farm where 12 children were allegedly detained.(Angelo Julies, Worcester Standard) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A woman from Worcester in the Western Cape has been arrested for child abuse after 12 children in her care were allegedly found left chained in a building outside the town, the Worcester Standard reported. The 52-year-old woman appeared in the Worcester Magistrate's Court on Thursday. She has not been identified in order to protect the identities of the minor children. According to the charge sheet, a horsewhip was used to beat one of the children in her care and the child had been chained to a bed. The children are between the ages of 2 and 16, and had either been adopted by the woman or placed in her care. She has one child of her own. The children were found in a temporary building on a farm 25km outside Worcester in the Scherpenheuwel district over the weekend. According to the police report, a 16-year-old, who had been placed in her care, was chained by the neck for three days. "It was also discovered that a 15-year-old, who is the biological child of the accused, has been beaten on a daily basis," police spokesperson Captain Lindikhaya Mkhontwana told the Worcester Standard. Read: Girl reports abusive parents, says sisters are 'chained up' A source close to the investigation told the newspaper that the children are undergoing medical tests, but that there is no reason to suspect sexual misconduct at this stage. The case has been postponed to February 13 for further investigation and for the accused to obtain legal aid. After appearing in court on Thursday, the woman visited the office of the Worcester Standard where she requested that the paper "please attend the entire court case so that everything that happened can be brought to light". She did not want to discuss the merits of the case and said that she was "very worried about the well-being of the children", who have been taken out of her care. She said that the case was "very complex" and that media coverage will give people the wrong idea about her. WATCH: Grandma Louw in altercation outside court Arlene Louw, the grandmother of the kidnapped and murdered nine-year-old Miguel, confronts several people accused of posting lies on Facebook outside the Durban Magistrate's Court on Wednesday. WATCH: Courtney Pieters' killer gets two life sentences for her rape, murder The Western Cape High Court has sentenced Mortimer Saunders to two life sentences for the rape and murder of 3-year-old Courtney Pieters. WATCH: NPA calls for two life sentences after Courtney Pieters' murderer found guilty The NPA has called for two life sentences after the Western Cape High Court found Mortimer Saunders guilty of the rape and murder of three-year-old Courtney Pieters. Part 2 | WATCH: Cecilia Steyn, alleged Krugersdorp murder mastermind, testifie Cecilia Steyn (37), the alleged mastermind behind the controversial Krugersdorp murders, is expected to testify in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Tuesday WATCH: Two farm workers accused of killing Coligny teen found guilty Two farm workers accused of killing a 15-year-old Coligny teen were found guilt of murder in the North West High Court in Mahikeng on Wednesday. WATCH: Krugersdorp killings | Marinda Steyn wraps up her testimony Convicted murderer Marinda Steyn will be back on the stand for cross-examination before Judge Jacob Francis in the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg on Friday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.