Kyle Cowan Paul O'Sullivan. (Deaan Vivier, Gallo Images, file) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Campaign managers for President Cyril Ramaphosa's 2017 ANC presidential campaign will not oppose any attempt by the Asset Forfeiture Unit to seize the R500 000 donated by Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson, should the unit choose to move in. Watson's donation, which is likely "tainted" and possibly the proceeds of crime, has been placed in an attorney's trust account pending the outcome of legal reviews on the matter. This is revealed in an email from the founder of Forensics for Justice, Paul O'Sullivan, to Democratic Alliance leader Mmusi Maimane, in response to a Public Access to Information Application filed by Maimane's office to Ramaphosa's son, Andile, seeking more details of the business agreement between Ramaphosa junior and Bosasa. O'Sullivan's email, dated 31 January 2019, is addressed to Maimane, the EFF's Dali Mpofu, as well as a member of Parliament's ethics committee and the Public Protector's office. Ramaphosa met with Public Protector Busisiwe Mkwebane on Tuesday to discuss Watson's donation, which she is probing. READ: Ramaphosa to meet Public Protector over Bosasa payment The DA's PAIA request, dated 21 January, sought details of the agreement between Blue Crane Capital, which belongs to Ramaphosa Jr, and African Global Operations, previously known as Bosasa. "[Andile Ramaphosa] has absolutely nothing to hide, and despite the multiple material defects in your request, he will treat same as if it was properly constructed," O'Sullivan's email reads. He confirms that he "acts for Andile Ramaphosa in a pro bono capacity". O'Sullivan attaches a copy of the agreement between Ramaphosa's company and Bosasa, titled "AGO Advisory Mandate", which is dated December 2017 – days before the December 2017 Nasrec ANC elective conference decided on a new leader. In a contradiction to claims that Ramaphosa Jr had nothing to hide, he did not provide invoices for payments from Bosasa to his company, citing privacy reasons. READ: Ramaphosa's son denies receiving R500 000 Bosasa payment The agreement was currently under review by Ramaphosa Jr and African Global Operations. The email then also delves into the issue of the R500 000 donation to the CR17 campaign. "When you raised the matter in Parliament, the President (wrongly) assumed that you were referring to payments received by his son, but he had no knowledge of what those payments might be. Although he had heard there was an advisory agreement in place, [he had] not been given a copy," O'Sullivan wrote. "His response made, was therefore a genuine error, as he had no first-hand knowledge." Ramaphosa originally told the National Assembly, in response to a supplementary question from Maimane, that he had spoken with his son, Andile, and had assured himself that the payment was above board. A week later, however, Ramaphosa corrected this in a letter to Speaker Baleka Mbete, saying he didn't have all the available information at hand when he responded and that it had since emerged the funds were actually a donation to his 2017 ANC presidential campaign. This caused opposition parties to accuse Ramaphosa of lying to Parliament. READ: FACT CHECKED - DA claims over Bosasa/Ramaphosa contract denial misleading O'Sullivan also attaches a proof of payment showing that R500 000 had been paid into a trust account held by Harris Nupen Molebatsi Attorneys. The funds would remain there "pending a finalisation as to what should legally happen to the funds". O'Sullivan sent a copy of the proof of payment to the Hawks with a request they pass the information to the AFU "in case they have an interest". News24 previously revealed how Watson concealed the donation by funnelling the money through a front company, Miotto Trading and Advisory Holdings, whose sole director is Margaret Longworth. Longworth is the sister of Peet Venter, whose affidavit Maimane used to confront Ramaphosa over the R500 000 payment. READ: Bosasa CEOs 'hidden' R500k donation to Ramaphosa deconstructed Venter claims in the December 2017 affidavit that Watson told him the funds were for the benefit of Andile Ramaphosa, but subsequently it was revealed that Venter transferred the funds from Watson's personal bank account to Miotto and then on to a trust account held by Edelstein Farber Grobler attorneys. The account, EFG2, was used to house the CR17 campaign funds. "We are satisfied that neither Mr Andile Ramaphosa, his father, or the Campaign Manager of CR 17, have in any way acted unlawfully. To the contrary, upon discovering what has happened, they have taken proper and reasonable steps to extract themselves from any association that may create reputational risk," O'Sullivan states. *Do you have a tip for our investigative journalists? Send an email to tips@24.com KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. WATCH: Political parties say they are ready for the coming elections Political parties say that they are ready for the coming elections. Speaking to News24 at the IEC elections launch at the Gallagher Convention Centre, the leaders also urged those eligible to vote to go register on January 26 and 27. WATCH: Ramaphosa calls on private sector to assist with the fight against corruption Corruption has become a big issue that has to be addressed by the whole nation, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Thursday. WATCH: Cyril Ramaphosa speaking at the start of his official state visit in India South African President Cyril Ramaphosa speaking at the start of his official state visit in India. He is flanked by Indian Prime Minister Nareandri Modi (in white) and Indian President Ram Nath Kovind WATCH: IEC hails new law to ensure transparency in political party funding President Cyril Ramaphosa signed the Political Party Funding bill into law on Tuesday. WATCH: Khayelitsha school bids to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place Chairperson of Enkanini Primary's School Governing Body Andile Lili shows what the school is doing in a bid to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place at the school in Khayelitsha ANC launches election manifesto South Africa's ruling ANC party launches its election campaign on Saturday ahead of polls in May that it is tipped to win despite recently falling support, internal divisions and a sluggish economy. On Friday, party members including President Cyr... SAfrica's Ramaphosa gives speech at ANC manifesto launch 1ST IMAGES of South Africa's Cyril Ramaphosa's speech at the launch of his party's 2019 election manifesto. The African National Congress (ANC), which has ruled since the end of apartheid 25 years ago, is tipped to win the election in May despite ... SAfrica's Ramaphosa gives speech at ANC manifesto launch 1ST IMAGES of South Africa's Cyril Ramaphosa's speech at the launch of his party's 2019 election manifesto. The African National Congress (ANC), which has ruled since the end of apartheid 25 years ago, is tipped to win the election in May despite ... WATCH: Ramaphosa tees off ahead of ANC's manifesto launch President Cyril Ramaphosa enjoyed a day of golf on Friday morning ahead of  the ANC's birthday celebrations and manifesto launch on Saturday. Ramaphosa played alongside paired players at the Mount Edgecombe Country Club Estate in Durban. WATCH: DA's Maimane, Msimanga in Mamelodi voter registration drive DA leader Mmusi Maimane and Tshwane Mayor Solly Msimanga went on a voter registration walkabout in Mamelodi, Pretoria on Thursday. WATCH: Praise and admonishment for ANCYL from Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa claimed expropriation of land without compensation and free higher education – policy positions the EFF will claims as its own – as victories for the ANC Youth League (ANCYL). WATCH: Masturbating Mr D driver dismissed after video goes viral Masturbating Mr D driver dismissed after video goes viral. WATCH: 'We are united' - ANC leaders as it marks 107 years The ANC spent a better part of its 107th year anniversary insisting that it was a united party and that there was no tension between its current president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass. WATCH: Protesters to Ramaphosa: Give us the money you give to the buffalo The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) and other trade unions took to the streets in Cape Town on Thursday to protest against police brutality and low wages.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.