GREYTOWN residents were over the moon last week when the Greytown Gazette posted a story on its Facebook page about the recent lake level, which was sitting at 90.10%. Adding to this, some residents reported a full day of water supply after four years of intermittent supply due to water restrictions in the area. Water restrictions were implemented by uMzinyathi District in a bid to save water due to the drought that hit the area. The Gazette has been receiving calls from residents asking if the drought is over while some residents posted on Facebook to ask if “the capacity of the lake will accommodate the growing population of the town.” Elmarie Dede posted: “We had water today, for the whole day, for the first time in [four] years. Thank you. Hope it stays.” Lee Mason posted: “That is great news, now people must learn to use the water wisely or else its back to square one. Thank you Lord.” Naomi Meyer posted: “This is absolutely amazing — [so] grateful for the town.” UMzinyathi District Municipality media and liaison officer Mandisa Mbuyisa said the current water supply is coming both from Lake Merthley and from boreholes. “It is true that for the last four years water was restricted, due to the rules on restriction that are imposed by the Department of Water and Sanitation as a regulator, and regulations on restrictions can only be lifted when the water source is sitting at 90% full. “Since last week, February 20, the Lake was sitting at 91% full, thus we opted to run the plant for 24 hours and restrictions were lifted to monitor the lake levels on a daily basis and also to avoid the overflow of the Lake.” Mbuyisa said issues with the Craigieburn pipeline, that is supposed to supply water to Greytown, have been taken up with higher level authorities in government in order to find an amicable solution and meet the Mooi Mpofana community’s needs. “However, the upgrade of the plants has started to increase the capacity. Even if the pipe can officially get to Greytown, that will not change the plant production unless the upgrade is finalised, then we can have more water for community distribution,” Mbuyisa said. The Greytown lake level as at Monday, February 25 was 94%.