Jenni Evans WATCH: Robbers make off with woman's phone, bag as she walks in Muizenberg SAPS confirmed that a case of robbery was reported at Muizenberg police station on Tuesday 19 February 2019. The incident allegedly occurred on 9 February at approximately 07:40. PHOTO: Getty Images Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Video footage has surfaced of a group of men mugging a woman in the Tshwane CBD. Her terrified screams echo through the busy street. The ordeal is over in mere seconds.WATCH A 27-year-old man was arrested in connection with the mugging of a young woman in Muizenberg whose filmed fight against her robbers went viral, police said. Spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Andrè Traut said after studying the video of the incident, the owner of the Mercedes Benz pictured was tracked down in Blouberg. The robbery occurred on February 9, 2019, at approximately 07:40 on Sunrise Boulevard, Costa da Gama. The identity of the driver of the Mercedes Benz was ascertained by detectives investigating the robbery and they closed in on him. "The suspect, a 27-year-old resident of Retreat, was arrested at 07:30 this morning (Friday) and detained at Muizenberg SAPS (South African Police Service) until his court appearance on Monday," said Traut. The silver Mercedes Benz was confiscated from the owner by the Muizenberg police and impounded. There might be another arrest, police said. In the video, the woman is seen walking on the pavement when a silver luxury car pulls up alongside her. WATCH: Woman fights back as men rob her of bag, cellphone in Cape Town Two men, one wearing a peak cap and the other a hoodie, approach her. One grabs her handbag and returns to the car, while his accomplice struggles with the woman.She fights back but her cellphone falls into the bushes. The robber tussles with her once more before getting into the car. She tries to open the car door, but the vehicle speeds off and she sinks to the pavement, with nobody stopping to help her.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.