Pelane Phakgadi WATCH: 'EFF is the only alternative' - supporter at manifesto launch Hundreds have filled Giant Stadium in Shoshanguve, north of Pretoria ahead of the Economic Freedom Fighters manifesto launch. Dali Mpofu. (File, Deaan Vivier, Netwerk24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories It was a slow start for the EFF manifesto launch at the Giant Stadium in Soshanguve, where party leader Julius Malema was expected to announce the party's commitments on Saturday ahead of the 2019 general elections. The 18 000-seater stadium is based in a township in which the EFF commands a strong support base. EFF Secretary General Gordich Gardee told News24 that South Africans could expect commitments from the party's manifesto, and not just promises. "We are expecting EFF supporters and the community to come out in their numbers to hear the commitments towards the general elections", said Gardee. S.Africa's EFF party supporters arrive ahead of Manifesto launch Supporters of South Africa's far-left Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) arrive at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve, Pretoria, ahead of the party's manifesto launch. When News24 asked him why the Giant Stadium was chosen, which is substantially smaller than the venue of the previous manifesto - Orlando Stadium, he said the party felt the need to take their events to the people. On questions on what people should expect as unique factors from the manifesto, Chairperson Dali Mpofu said the EFF would not make promises, but commitments which had time frames. He promised that these commitments would talk to the everyday challenges South Africans faced. "People will know that the ANC has been making promises for 25 years, but we will be giving dates on when projects will be undertaken", said Mpofu. Mpofu said that land and jobs would feature prominently in the speech by Malema, and it would detail how the EFF intended to "get out of the mess created by the ANC, including addressing challenges of education and health. Scores of EFF supporters continue  to make their way into the venue, with Malema expected to give the key note address this afternoon.  WATCH: Malema dares Ramaphosa to come clean about Bosasa EFF leader Julius Malema on Wednesday called for politicians mentioned in former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi's testimony to resign. WATCH: EFF supporters storm Vodacom stores Self-declared members and supporters of the EFF, many in EFF T-shirts, attacked at least two Vodacom stores over the weekend. WATCH: Malema lays charges against Pravin Gordhan EFF leader Julius Malema opened a case of money laundering and corruption against Public Enterprises minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday. WATCH LIVE: Julius Malema addresses the crowd outside #StateCaptureInquiry EFF leader Julius Malema addressed the crowd outside the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture where Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan was testifying. WATCH: EFF demonstrates for second day at #StateCaptureInquiry Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan on Tuesday continued with his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture, as the EFF demonstrated outside for a second day in a row. WATCH: Pravin will destroy Eskom and SAA in order to privatise them - EFF The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) staged a picket outside the State Capture Inquiry on Monday calling for the removal of Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Public Enterprises. Land expropriation: EFF says it's race issue; DA questions process Court action to prevent Parliament from amending the Constitution to allow for expropriation without compensation seems imminent as parties opposing an amendment to section 25 all sang from the same hymn sheet.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.