Kaveel Singh Students at DUT have embarked on a protest following the death of student Mlungisi Madonsela. He was shot and killed during protests. (Kaveel Singh, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Students at the Durban University of Technology (DUT) have demanded justice for slain student Mlungisi Madonsela who was recently killed during protests. At least 700 people led by the student representative council (SRC) took to the streets in an unplanned march to the Durban city centre on Monday. They marched to City Hall, where mayoral political advisor Mlungisi Ntombela received their memorandum of demands. In it, students called for the immediate arrest of the two security guards who are linked to the shooting and killing of Madonsela. They also called for immediate action against the university and Excellent Security, the company contracted by the university. Speaking to News24, SRC leader Sesiyanda Godlimpi thanked students for their support. "They came out in their numbers and it made a real difference. We are happy that so many attended." More from the #DUTProtest right now @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/M2e14gUM6I Spirited DUT students have embarked on a peaceful protest. We are currently on Steve Biko Road. They are headed to city hall. #DUTProtest @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/4T0GkZCGSn #DUTProtest has begun now. Students are heading to City Hall. They are protesting after the death of Mlungisi Madonsela @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/b2FipZKjqW  He said that students would continue to protest until the security guards were arrested and Excellent Security were removed. "They have killed a child and we are keeping them at our university. For what? We demand that they go." The university is expected to release a statement later on Monday. More MUT arrests Meanwhile, around 80 students at the Mangosuthu University of Technology (MUT) embarked on protest action around 08:30, with tyres burnt to block access to the institution. Several protests, mainly at universities, flared up on Sunday evening and spilled into Monday as students complained about various issues, including housing, fee disputes and the death of Madonsela. A total of nine people were arrested following the protests, police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.