Kamva Somdyala Electricity pylons (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories City of Cape Town mayoral committee member for energy and climate change, Phindile Maxiti, says the City will petition the Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg to expedite the matter to allow not only Cape Town, but other municipalities to be able to purchase energy from independent power producers (IPPs). "We are doing everything possible to move away from sole reliance on Eskom for our energy needs while, at the same time, trying to become more resilient and sustainable through the use of cleaner energy, such as renewable energy and transitional fuels such as natural gas," said Maxiti. In 2017, the City served the Department of Energy (DoE) and the National Energy Regulator of South Africa (Nersa) with court papers challenging the so-called "single-buyer" model in South Africa, whereby Eskom is given exclusive right to produce electricity from generators of electricity for resale, including electricity from renewable energy IPPs. "The price of power generated from IPPs would differ based on technology and the procurement process to be followed if the court case is successful," Maxiti said. South Africa pledges $4.9 bln Eskom bailout South Africa will give state power utility Eskom 69 billion rand ($4.9 billion) over three years, Finance Minister Tito Mboweni said while delivering the key part of the country's budget on Wednesday. ALSO READ: Cities must be allowed to source energy - Maimane on load shedding The City wants a Section 34 determination, in accordance with the New Generation Capacity Regulations in the Electricity Generation Act, to allow them to procure up to 400MW of renewable energy from IPPs. Maxiti said that the City, and indeed the country, could not afford to suffer any more economic devastation from load shedding, adding that, "given the governance issues that have again been raised regarding Eskom, it provides further imperative to ensure that we produce diversified energy sources". "If we are allowed to procure renewable energy, we can reduce the long-term electricity costs for our residents and provide cleaner power. Currently, some 65% of the tariff that we charge customers for electricity goes toward the cost to buy electricity from Eskom. "Metros must become the energy champions of their residents and of their commercial sector players," she added.  WATCH: Ash clouds still visible above Medupi Clouds of ash could be seen above the Medupi plant in Limpopo on Thursday. WATCH: Roaring trade for some small businesses amidst load shedding gloom Last Sunday Eskom implemented load shedding for the first time since December 2019. While this has resulted in major inconvenience and loss of income for ordinary South Africans and most businesses, some are seeing a sharp increase in trade as a dire WATCH: Site conditions 'really bad' as Medupi spews ash Clouds of ash could be seen above the Medupi plant in Limpopo on Thursday. NATIONWIDE STRIKE: Cosatu protests Eskom restructuring and job loses Cosatu members took to the streets on Wednesday after the trade union federation announced a nationwide strike. LISTEN: Eskom CFO Calib Cassim on the utility's woes Eskom CFO Calib Cassim weighs in on the power utility's unbundling and plans to manage its crippling financial crisis WATCH: Understanding the 'end of Eskom as we know it' News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and News24 Head of Video Jerusha Sukhdeo-Raath discuss the 'unbundling' of Eskom that was announced in President Cyril Ramaphosa's second State of the Nation Address on Thursday. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan briefs South Africa on state of Eskom Eskom held a media briefing at 14:00 at Megawatt Park on Thursday to give an update on its operational challenges. WATCH: Worker takes Eskom labour brokers to court Witness Chauke is not afraid to speak truth to power. He says it was for this reason that his contract was terminated. He was the chairman of his group of (NUMSA) members at Eskom before his contract was terminated. WATCH: This father says outsourcing at Eskom is hurting his kids' future When Tshepang's* first child was born, he dropped out of school to seek work. He has worked as a contractor at various state entities. His current contract sees his salary filtered through two labour broking companies before it reaches him. WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. WATCH: Pravin will destroy Eskom and SAA in order to privatise them - EFF The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) staged a picket outside the State Capture Inquiry on Monday calling for the removal of Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Public Enterprises. 'This is a well orchestrated campaign to vilify my name' - Gigaba on leaked Eskom report Parliament's committee on public enterprises is now part of a campaign aimed at destroying Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.