Canny Maphanga and Jeanette Chabalala Jabu Mabuza. (Elvira Wood) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The Economic Freedom Fighters said it wants new Eskom board
chairperson Jabu Mabuza to step down following disclosures he made at the
judicial commission of inquiry into state capture on Friday. The EFF on Saturday said Mabuza disclosed a "serious
conflict of interest" during his testimony that should have disqualified
him from his position at the power utility. Mabuza, who is currently chairing the new Eskom board tasked
with ridding the state-owned entity of impropriety, told the commission on
Friday that he had bought 6% of shares in Sphere Investment worth R26m. He said that upon accepting the position of board
chairperson in January 2018 he declared all his interests and resigned from
future investment decisions at Sphere. The shares had also been put in a blind
trust. READ: Mabuza testimony at state capture inquiry "Mabuza told the commission that he is an executive
chair of a company that maintains a third of Eskom's boilers," EFF
spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said in a statement on Saturday. Ndlozi was referring to Sphere's shares in Babcock and
Honeywell, who have contracts with Eskom. The use of a blind trust was not good
enough, Ndlozi continued. "The use of blind trusts by high profile executives in
state-owned companies, including political office, is nothing but a web of
dishonesty and deception used to hide the conflict of interest and dealings
taking place to enrich the few, at the expense of South Africans," Ndlozi
claimed. Mining interest Mabuza on Friday had also raised another interest in mining
that involved his family. "I am related to my wife by marriage. She is related to
Themba Langa who I had a role in raising and the Mabuzas and the Langas have a
joint venture in mining," he told the commission. Mabuza said he does not sit in meetings regarding decisions
on the procurement of coal. The EFF remained adamant that despite the declaration of
interests finalised in January 2018, Mabuza's links to the power utility and
Independent Power Producers (IPPs) were glaring. "The collapse of Eskom was due to the appointment of
too many individuals who had direct or indirect interests at Eskom. "This mistake is often repeated, despite concrete
evidence of the damage it has brought to Eskom, because the people appointed
prioritise their interests at Eskom, instead of those of the public,"
Ndlozi said. The party therefore called on Mabuza to step down, like
other individuals who also had a conflict of interest. No further comment Mabuza's chief of staff Lwanda Zingitwa on Sunday told
News24 that, in his testimony on Friday, Mabuza talked to his relationship with
Sphere holdings and his resignation upon appointment at Eskom. Mabuza explained the reasons for that resignation and wished
to add nothing more to that detail. He wished to reiterate that: "Leading up to my
appointment as chairman of Eskom and currently as chairman I have never made or
approved of any decision that was in my personal interests at the expense of
Eskom’s or the public's interest." Mabuza will continue his testimony at the commission on
Monday. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  South Africa pledges $4.9 bln Eskom bailout South Africa will give state power utility Eskom 69 billion rand ($4.9 billion) over three years, Finance Minister Tito Mboweni said while delivering the key part of the country's budget on Wednesday. WATCH: Ash clouds still visible above Medupi Clouds of ash could be seen above the Medupi plant in Limpopo on Thursday. WATCH: Roaring trade for some small businesses amidst load shedding gloom Last Sunday Eskom implemented load shedding for the first time since December 2019. While this has resulted in major inconvenience and loss of income for ordinary South Africans and most businesses, some are seeing a sharp increase in trade as a dire LISTEN: Eskom CFO Calib Cassim on the utility's woes Eskom CFO Calib Cassim weighs in on the power utility's unbundling and plans to manage its crippling financial crisis WATCH: Understanding the 'end of Eskom as we know it' News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and News24 Head of Video Jerusha Sukhdeo-Raath discuss the 'unbundling' of Eskom that was announced in President Cyril Ramaphosa's second State of the Nation Address on Thursday. WATCH: Site conditions 'really bad' as Medupi spews ash Clouds of ash could be seen above the Medupi plant in Limpopo on Thursday. NATIONWIDE STRIKE: Cosatu protests Eskom restructuring and job loses Cosatu members took to the streets on Wednesday after the trade union federation announced a nationwide strike. Mass powercuts in South Africa, sabotage denied South Africa has suffered a third day of powercuts caused by major problems at the main energy supplier Eskom. The government has only recently announced plans to split the company up. PODCAST: #SONA2019 | Focus on the economy (almost a Mbeki-type speech) This week on POLOTIKI we discuss President Cyril Ramaphosa's second State of the Nation Address, delivered on Thursday evening during a joint session of Parliament. WATCH: Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi testifies at state capture inquiry The Judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture resumed on Wednesday with former Bosasa employee Angelo Agrizzi on the witness stand. WATCH: Pravin Gordhan briefs South Africa on state of Eskom Eskom held a media briefing at 14:00 at Megawatt Park on Thursday to give an update on its operational challenges. WATCH: Worker takes Eskom labour brokers to court Witness Chauke is not afraid to speak truth to power. He says it was for this reason that his contract was terminated. He was the chairman of his group of (NUMSA) members at Eskom before his contract was terminated. WATCH: This father says outsourcing at Eskom is hurting his kids' future When Tshepang's* first child was born, he dropped out of school to seek work. He has worked as a contractor at various state entities. His current contract sees his salary filtered through two labour broking companies before it reaches him. WATCH: What's behind Eskom's load shedding woes? It was to be a bumper weekend of sport, not to mention the Global Citizen festival honouring Nelson Mandela. However, some South Africans hoping for couch time with Beyonce were left staring at blank TVs when Eskom instituted load shedding. WATCH: Pravin will destroy Eskom and SAA in order to privatise them - EFF The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) staged a picket outside the State Capture Inquiry on Monday calling for the removal of Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Public Enterprises. Power outage risk rising - South African utility Eskom South Africa's power company Eskom says the risk of nationwide electricity outages has increased significantly due to a sharp fall in coal stockpiles. 'This is a well orchestrated campaign to vilify my name' - Gigaba on leaked Eskom report Parliament's committee on public enterprises is now part of a campaign aimed at destroying Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba. WATCH: ANC paints Joburg yellow demanding service delivery Hundreds of ANC members from greater Joburg – in collaboration with alliance partners Sanco, SACP and Cosatu – are marching to the offices of Mayor Herman Mashaba, Premier David Makhura and Eskom to hand over memorandums demanding service delivery   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.