Canny Maphanga President Cyril Ramaphosa. (GCIS) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories The ANC has rejected Mosiuoa Lekota's claims that President Cyril Ramaphosa was a "sellout". "The ANC has full confidence in President Ramaphosa, and we do not take kindly to desperate attempts to call to question his integrity. "Allegations of this nature are often made when the accuser fears exposure for his own misdeeds or runs out of political ideas," acting national spokesperson Zizi Kodwa said in a statement on Thursday. This comes after the Cope leader said that Ramaphosa sold out student activists to the apartheid police special branch in the 1970s during the State of the Nation (SONA) debate on Wednesday. READ: Lekota claims Ramaphosa was rewarded by apartheid's special branch "When it was difficult, you (Ramaphosa) wrote to the special branch that we put communist ideas in your head, in doing so you condemned us to the special branch. "I say this because the special branch rewarded you and they sent you home and we headed to Robben Island," Lekota alleged in the National Assembly. Dismissing these allegations, Kodwa said that the political party was behind its leader. "Notwithstanding the baseless allegations made by Terror Lekota, the ANC will not be deterred in galvanising the nation to embrace a future where every citizen has a stake in growing South Africa into a vibrant and prosperous nation," he added. Lekota labelled a betrayer The ANC further claims that these "baseless allegations" are nothing but a way to throw stones and make attempts at denigrating Ramaphosa's character. "The ANC has a proud history as a liberation movement that has fought to liberate all South Africans across the racial divide and has brought together people from different strands. Some of these people, who were trusted comrades and rose to the highest ranks of the ANC, have never hesitated to betray this legacy and trust when it suited their personal ambitions. "Terror Lekota is one of those who had no qualms in betraying an organisation that shaped his politics and career over many decades for expediency," Kodwa said. Professor Muxe Nkondo, who was the president's lecturer during the struggle against apartheid, says the allegations by Lekota were "very sad". "I can confirm that I have no recollection of the president being accused of being a spy, even when he was my student. "I am surprised that Mr Lekota can compromise the president years later. This is very sad," he concluded. Ramaphosa delivered his SONA reply in the National Assembly on Thursday. He addressed Lekota's allegations, stating he had never been a spy and had never sold out his comrades. Quoting former ANC leader Oliver Tambo, he warned the National Assembly to beware of "wedge drivers". READ MORE: 'I have never ever been a spy', says Ramaphosa to standing ovation Ramaphosa: I will sing Masekela's 'Thuma Mina' if EFF win in May South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa jokingly says that if the Economic Freedom Fighters win elections in May, he will sing Hugh Masekela's song 'Thuma Mina' in Parliament. Ramaphosa was delivering his last state-of-the-nation address ahead of... South African elections set for May 8: president South Africa will go to polls on May 8, President Cyril Ramaphosa announces as he set out his stall for the election in a state-of-the-nation address focused on reviving the economy. WATCH: Our approach to land expropriation will be to enhance property rights - Cyril Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed the 25th annual Investing in Africa Mining Indaba at the Cape Town International Convention Centre on Tuesday. WATCH: Ramaphosa's reincarnated Scorpions a 'seminal moment' in SONA 2019 News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson calls President Cyril Ramaphosa's announcement that he will bring back a Scorpions-like unit to help root out corruption a 'major announcement' during post-SONA analysis. WATCH: Mixed reaction to Ramaphosa's SONA speech While some political figures lauded President Cyril Ramaphosa's second State of the Nation speech, others dismissed it as 'lip service' and 'a campaigning speech'. Watch. WATCH: Ramaphosa enjoys rare chance to practice his swing President Cyril Ramaphosa took to the golf course for the annual Presidential Golf Challenge at the Atlantic Beach Golf Estate in Melkbosstrand on Friday. WATCH: What would the Ramaphosa-Malema-Maimane band be called? If President Cyril Ramaphosa formed a band with EFF leader Julius Malema and DA leader Mmusi Maimane, what should it be called?   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.