Kamva Somdyala WATCH: What would the Ramaphosa-Malema-Maimane band be called? If President Cyril Ramaphosa formed a band with EFF leader Julius Malema and DA leader Mmusi Maimane, what should it be called? Cyril Ramaphosa. (Kamva Somdyala, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories If President Cyril Ramaphosa formed a band with EFF leader Julius Malema and DA leader Mmusi Maimane, what should it be called? Ramaphosa mulled the idea of the "great band's" name at the presidential golf challenge in Cape Town on Friday morning, laughing after journalists posed the question. He had started his State of the Nation Address (SONA) on a light note on Thursday evening, saying when he mentioned the Hugh Masekela song "Thuma Mina" in his SONA in 2018, Malema whispered that he should sing it. When he bumped into Malema on the eve of his address this year, the two reached an agreement: "We agreed that if the EFF wins the elections and he (Malema) is installed as the president of South Africa, he will invite me to come onto stage and sing for him." Ramaphosa: I will sing Masekela's 'Thuma Mina' if EFF win in May South Africa's President Cyril Ramaphosa jokingly says that if the Economic Freedom Fighters win elections in May, he will sing Hugh Masekela's song 'Thuma Mina' in Parliament. Ramaphosa was delivering his last state-of-the-nation address ahead of... The National Assembly erupted into laughter at his joke. READ: Cyril Ramaphosa's leap-of-faith SONA "I also met Maimane," Ramaphosa continued … "I recruited him to become a member of the band we are going to form." He continued with his joke on Friday when he spoke to the media at the annual Presidential Golf Challenge, which brings MPs, members of the executive and business together to raise funds for the Cyril Ramaphosa Foundation. When he was asked whether he had a name for the band, he laughed and replied: "No, we are going to think of a name," he said. "But it's going to be a great band." As he headed off to play his first round with UDM leader Bantu Holomisa, he told News24 that he would be happy if South Africans helped to come up with a name for the band. ALSO READ: Ramaphosa, Mboweni insult the nation with nine wasted years comments - Holomisa He even joked that he might consider holding an inquiry to decide on the best name. The annual golf challenge, according to Ramaphosa, is a good cause for charity. "It's done in such a way that the president decides which charity benefits from the funds raised. "It's for the good work that the Cyril Ramaphosa Foundation does in schools and in promoting small and medium enterprises. We will of course work with other charities around the country, supporting the work that they do. The funds raised today will go to good work," he said. WATCH: Mixed reaction to Ramaphosa's SONA speech While some political figures lauded President Cyril Ramaphosa's second State of the Nation speech, others dismissed it as 'lip service' and 'a campaigning speech'. Watch. WATCH: Ramaphosa's reincarnated Scorpions a 'seminal moment' in SONA 2019 News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson calls President Cyril Ramaphosa's announcement that he will bring back a Scorpions-like unit to help root out corruption a 'major announcement' during post-SONA analysis. WATCH: Ramaphosa tees off ahead of ANC's manifesto launch President Cyril Ramaphosa enjoyed a day of golf on Friday morning ahead of  the ANC's birthday celebrations and manifesto launch on Saturday. Ramaphosa played alongside paired players at the Mount Edgecombe Country Club Estate in Durban. Ramaphosa steals show at summit: 'We need leadership, not leaders' South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. WATCH: Cyril Ramaphosa speaking at the start of his official state visit in India South African President Cyril Ramaphosa speaking at the start of his official state visit in India. He is flanked by Indian Prime Minister Nareandri Modi (in white) and Indian President Ram Nath Kovind WATCH: Ramaphosa calls on private sector to assist with the fight against corruption Corruption has become a big issue that has to be addressed by the whole nation, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Thursday. South African elections set for May 8: president South Africa will go to polls on May 8, President Cyril Ramaphosa announces as he set out his stall for the election in a state-of-the-nation address focused on reviving the economy. WATCH: ANC shakes up Durban with manifesto launch A crowd of around 85 000 people joined the ANC at their manifesto launch at the Moses Mabhida stadium on Saturday. Cyril Ramaphosa says he wants to reconcile the hunger for land with the fears of those who have land South Africa doesn't need leaders, they need leadership, President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Tuesday.

Speaking at the Discovery Leadership Summit in Sandton, Ramaphosa stole the show as the only speaker of the day to receive a standing ovation. WATCH: Our approach to land expropriation will be to enhance property rights - Cyril Ramaphosa President Cyril Ramaphosa addressed the 25th annual Investing in Africa Mining Indaba at the Cape Town International Convention Centre on Tuesday. SAfrica's Ramaphosa gives speech at ANC manifesto launch 1ST IMAGES of South Africa's Cyril Ramaphosa's speech at the launch of his party's 2019 election manifesto. The African National Congress (ANC), which has ruled since the end of apartheid 25 years ago, is tipped to win the election in May despite ... SAfrica's Ramaphosa gives speech at ANC manifesto launch 1ST IMAGES of South Africa's Cyril Ramaphosa's speech at the launch of his party's 2019 election manifesto. The African National Congress (ANC), which has ruled since the end of apartheid 25 years ago, is tipped to win the election in May despite ... There will prosecutions and people will go to jail - Cyril Ramaphosa assures investors President Cyril Ramaphosa has said that SA welcomes investors at the Mining Indaba with open arms and has emphasised that SA and Africa are destinations that can offer great value. South Africa's Ramaphosa lands in Buenos Aires ahead of G20 South African President Cyril Ramaphosa greets Argentina's Foreign Minister Jorge Faurie at his arrival in Buenos Aires ahead of the G20 Summit. S.Africa's EFF party supporters arrive ahead of Manifesto launch Supporters of South Africa's far-left Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) arrive at Giant Stadium in Soshanguve, Pretoria, ahead of the party's manifesto launch. WATCH: Ramaphosa handing over 4 586 hectares of land to a KZN community President Cyril Ramaphosa handed over more than 4000 hectares of land to the KwaMkhwanazi community in Empangeni, northern KwaZulu-Natal on Sunday.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.