Correspondent (File) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories A Delft teacher is being investigated for allegedly punishing Grade 1 learners by locking them up in a classroom because they did not have R2 to pay for casual day, Times Live reported. The incident reportedly took place at Abedare Primary School in Delft, Cape Town. Times Live reported that spokesperson for the Western Cape Education Department (WCED), Bronangh Hammond, said the allegation was "concerning". "The WCED received a tweet regarding the incident and a request for follow-up was made. The allegations are concerning. The alert happened over the weekend, therefore the WCED will investigate on [Monday]," Hammond told Times Live. Hammond could not be reached by News24. Parents 'afraid' of reporting teacher The Daily Dispatch reported that the teacher had locked the pupils who did not have the money in the classroom, and allowed those who had paid to go watch something in the school hall. The Daily Dispatch and the Herald reported that, in a separate incident, the same teacher allegedly beat a seven-year-old on the hand, which had to be bandaged. Both publications reported that parents were "afraid" of reporting the teacher because the teacher would ignore the pupils afterwards. Earlier this month, another Cape Town teacher was caught on video slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls' High School. This followed an apparent verbal quarrel over a book escalating to the pupil shoving the teacher, who retaliated by striking the teenager across the face. Both the teacher and pupil have been suspended, pending further investigation, News24 reported.  WATCH: Teacher at elite Cape Town girls' school faces disciplinary action for slapping girl [BLUR] A Cape Town teacher who was seen slapping a pupil at Sans Souci Girls High School will face disciplinary action, the Western Cape Department of Education (WCED) said on Wednesday. WATCH: Hundreds gather for emotional night vigil at Hoërskool Driehoek Hundreds of people gathered at Hoërskool Driehoek in Vanderbijlpark for an emotional night vigil, after a concrete slab collapsed at the school, killing three children and seriously injuring 25 others. WATCH: SA Human Rights Commission reacts to the Hoërskool Driehoek tragedy The SA Human Rights Commission will launch a probe into a walkway collapse at a high school in Vanderbijlpark, that killed four children last week. WATCH: Khayelitsha school bids to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place Chairperson of Enkanini Primary's School Governing Body Andile Lili shows what the school is doing in a bid to accommodate over 600 children who still need a place at the school in Khayelitsha WATCH: Suspended Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher vows to clear her name The Schweizer-Reneke primary school teacher who was suspended for allegedly taking photographs showing the children sitting separately has vowed to clear her name. WATCH: Schweizer-Reneke calm, but on tenterhooks after segregation of black, white pupils The sleepy town of Schweizer-Reneke in the North West is on tenterhooks after a picture showing black and white pupils sitting separately according to race in a Grade R classroom at the local primary school went viral. WATCH: Cape pupil awarded for matriculating after surviving deadly fire Lance Minnies came close to losing his life in a deadly 2016 fire and almost gave up on his studies when he recovered. But it was the hope for a better future and the support of caring people at his school that pulled him through. WATCH: Grade 1 pupil gets ready for big school Starting Grade 1 is a big step for little ones. For Luca (6), getting ready for school took quite some time on Wednesday morning, but he soon got into the swing of things. WATCH: Celebrations at this Delft school as pupils receive matric results There were lots of tears and hugs as pupils collected their results at the Masibambisane High School in Delft.
Nondumiso Klaas and her husband Andile ran to hug their son Anenceba, 18, after hearing he received a bachelor pass.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.