Canny Maphanga WATCH: Striking Bosasa workers didn't know about liquidation Workers employed by facilities management company Bosasa, now known as African Global Operations, staged a demonstration outside its Mogale City head office on Monday - minutes after the company announced its voluntary liquidation. Striking Bosasa employees.  (Canny Maphanga) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Workers employed by facilities management company Bosasa, now known as African Global Operations (AGO), staged a demonstration outside its Mogale City head office on Monday - minutes after the company announced its voluntary liquidation. "[W]e are gathered here ... to make several demands relating to medical aid, transport allowance and wages," South African Private Security Workers Union (SAPSWU) representative Moses Sefala told News24. The group of demonstrators were hired as security personnel at the Lindela Repatriation Centre and were unaware that just minutes before the demonstration, the company announced that it would go into voluntary liquidation, which could lead 4 500 employees to possibly lose their jobs. This comes after First National Bank (FNB) and Absa informed the company, led by CEO Gavin Watson, of its decision to close its bank accounts. ANALYSIS: In a way this is the end of Bosasa, says Adriaan Basson News24 Editor-in-Chief Adriaan Basson and Opinions Editor Alet Janse van Rensburg unpack the latest developments in the Bosasa scandal, after the company announced it was under voluntary liquidation. Watch. "The extensive reputational damage in the past few months, occasioned by negative media reports, has resulted in financial institutions determination that the African Global Group poses a reputational risk for them as clients," AGO said in a statement on Monday. "The decisions made by the financial institutions are not based on the African Global Group's liquidity status, financial stability, operational performance or growth forecasts. On the contrary, the group is both factually and commercially solvent. Tragically, the group will be unable to trade without a bank account," the group explained. ALSO READ: FNB, Absa close Bosasa bank accounts Bosasa was thrust into the spotlight during the ongoing commission of inquiry into state capture when former COO Angelo Agrizzi revealed an alleged system of corruption involving top government officials, over a decade. Thabo Mamohale, an employee, said he was shocked to learn through the inquiry allegations that his management was offering large bribes to rich officials while workers received low salaries. "How can you give someone who earns more than R100 000 big money, but you offer peanuts to the people that are actually working for you? "I have been working here for years but I don't even have a car or a house to show for it, but they are busy giving people money," he alleged. #Bosasa : Thabo Mamohale says that he was shocked to learn through the #StateCaptureInquiry that management was allegedly handing out bribes while they continued to earn low salaries @TeamNews24 . pic.twitter.com/LF5GqNBSDC A memorandum was handed over to a management official, Johan Abrie, who told workers that he could not make any promises. "I will pass it on to the leadership of the group and we will respond within seven days. "At this stage, I cannot make any promises or commitments as it is out of my hands," he told workers. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  Whistleblowers should still come forward says Hawks after Bosasa arrests ormer Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi, former correctional services CFO Patrick Gillingham, and Bosasa official Andries van Tonder, on Wednesday briefly appeared in the dock at the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court. WATCH: Agrizzi, van Tonder and Gillingham appear in dock The Hawks on Wednesday arrested six suspects on allegations of corruption, money laundering and fraud relating to Bosasa. A warrant of arrest has been issued for a seventh suspect. 'I will kill you' - Bosasa operative to journalist News24 editor-in-chief Adriaan Basson told the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture that a public relations executive paid by Bosasa said she would "kill" him if he told anyone about a threatening phone call she had made to him. WATCH: 'Ja boetie...and R900k next week' – Zondo inquiry hears from Bosasa bag man Yet more explosive testimony before the Zondo Commission of inquiry into state capture on Tuesday has revealed the identity of a man who delivered cash to Bosasa, which was in turn used to pay bribes to government officials and ministers. LISTEN: Bosasa bosses Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma [WITH SUBTITLES] In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. LISTEN: Agrizzi and Watson talk about influencing Zuma In the weeks leading up to the appointment of Shaun Abrahams as the country's prosecutions boss, Bosasa CEO Gavin Watson bragged how he planned to lobby former president Jacob Zuma. WATCH: Agrizzi details unfair advantage given to Bosasa to secure 'one of the biggest' tenders Former Bosasa boss Angelo Agrizzi is on the stand for the fifth day at the Zondo commission of inquiry into state capture. WATCH: Agrizzi claims he packed R50 000 a month for Minister Mokonyane Former Bosasa COO Angelo Agrizzi told the Zondo Commission that the company catered for ANC rallies and paid for the ruling party's birthday cake. Agrizzi was testifying about the relationship between Bosasa and Cabinet minister Nomvula Mokonyana WATCH: Bosasa and #StateCapture | Here's what you need to know... Former Bosasa chief operations officer Angelo Agrizzi has revealed details of how much the company spent in bribes on a monthly basis, during his testimony at the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.