Canny Maphanga WATCH: Prophet Bushiri takes responsibility for deadly church stampede Prophet Shepherd Bushiri on Monday appeared at the CRL Rights Commission hearing looking into the stampede that claimed three lives at the Enlightened Christian Gathering Church (ECG) in Pretoria. Prophet Bushiri along with church representatives before the CRL Rights Commission. (Sesona Ngqakamba, News24) Multimedia    ·   User Galleries   ·   News in Pictures
	        Send us your pictures   ·  Send us your stories Self-proclaimed prophet Shepherd Bushiri's application to hold a Enlightened Christian Gathering (ECG) Church event on December 28, 2018, that resulted in several fatalities, was fully compliant with by-laws, the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities (CRL Rights Commission) has found. "The application by Enlightened Christian Gathering (ECG) Church for the evening of December 28, 2018 was fully compliant with the by-laws and the Safety at Sports and Recreational Events Act 2 of 2010 (SSRE Act)," commission chairperson Thoko Mkhwanazi-Xaluva said in a statement on Friday. A storm hit the City of Tshwane that night, leading to panic among congregants. A stampede followed in one of the halls where people were gathered for an 20:00 service. The incident left three dead and nine injured. WATCH: Bushiri distances himself from church in the wake of stampede that left 3 dead WATCH: The church is bigger than Bushiri - ECG Church spokesperson Prophet Bushiri's Enlightened Christian Gathering church briefed the media on events following a deadly stampede at the church on December 28, 2018. The commission held a mediation discussion between the ECG church and the South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco) on January 14, 2019, to gather facts, foster mutual respect and co-existence and encourage a ceasefire between the parties after Sanco called for the church to be closed and the Pretoria Showgrounds, where it is situated, to be handed over to the City of Tshwane. This was followed by a hearing the commission initiated to investigate several claims, accusations and counter-claims, and to discuss marches and demonstrations organised by Sanco. ALSO READ: CRL establishes hearing to get to the bottom of stampede at Bushiri church The commission learnt through the hearings that a certificate was issued for the event by the City of Tshwane's events management joint operations committee (JOC). "The City of Tshwane's co-chairperson of [the] JOC confirmed these documents as authentic and having been issued by [the] JOC," Mkhwanazi-Xaluva said. However, the commission found that a venue operations centre (VOC) should have been established at the event according to by-laws. "Such was not established. "The VOC had to be composed of various bodies including, but not limited to, police officials, disaster management services, [the] fire department, traffic officials and medical services," Mkhwanazi-Xaluva explained. The body further found that the press statement issued by outgoing Mayor Solly Msimanga was "unfair, unjust and prejudicial to the ECG church". "The statement wrongfully depicted the church as non-compliant. It ignited the community to demand further that Prophet Bushiri should leave South Africa," she said. Msimanga issued instructions to bring the church up to code, following an inspection. READ MORE: Confusion at hearing over who granted compliance certificate for Bushiri church The CRL recommended the following: WATCH: Straight from the horse's mouth - Pretoria preacher uses trusty steed to deliver sermon Seeing a man on a horse is a rare sight nowadays, and a man on his steed in a church, even more so. WATCH: Witness says she was 14 when pastor Timothy Omotoso started molesting her The first witness has taken the stand of the trial of controversial pastor Timothy Omotoso, taking place in Port Elizabeth.   24.com encourages commentary submitted via MyNews24. Contributions of 200 words or more will be considered for publication.