Khartoum – "Just fall, just fall," Hadia
chanted, her voice cutting through the din as a convoy of paramilitaries rolled
past a mass of flag-waving protesters in downtown Khartoum. She was one of tens of thousands who hit the
streets on Sunday in Sudan's capital and other cities, responding to calls by
protest leaders to keep up their "revolution" and pressure the ruling
generals to hand power to civilians. Despite clouds of tear gas and a large deployment
of the feared paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF), cheering crowds thronged
the avenues of the capital. Wrapped in large Sudanese flags, protesters
whistled, cheered and chanted the slogans of the uprising. "Civilian! Civilian!" they shouted,
accompanied by a pulsing cacophony of car horns. "Free revolutionaries, we will finish the
job!" 'They'll have to kill all of us!' Meet the young protesters in Sudan prepared to die to keep the country's revolution alive. At times, the processions trailed through
intersections where riot police and RSF troops were deployed, accompanied by
pick-ups mounted with heavy machine guns. "We want a civilian government... we want a
safe country and prosperity," hollered Hadia Abdel Rahman, with her one-year-old
daughter balanced on her hip. 'The country is suffering' The protesters have been locked in a tense standoff
with Sudan's ruling military council since the generals took power after
ousting long-time leader Omar al-Bashir in April. As the Islamic holy month of Ramadan drew to a
close with the Eid ul-Fitr festival in early June, armed men in military
fatigues stormed a protest sit-in, outside army headquarters in Khartoum. There and in the crackdown that followed, they
killed at least 128 people, according to doctors close to the protesters. The health ministry says 61 people were killed that
day.  Sudanese men use a false camera and microphone to stage interviews with protesters during a sit-in near their headquarters in the capital Khartoum. (Ozan Kose/AFP) "We celebrated Eid with the sound of bullets
and the blood of martyrs," said protester Hadia on Sunday. "Our children are being killed in the
streets," added the 29-year-old, who wore a colourfully patterned
traditional veil. Khaled Abdel Karim carried on his shoulders his
four-year-old nephew, who was carrying a large Sudanese flag. "The country has been suffering for 30
years... We are here to let the younger generations know" what happened,
Abdel Karim said. "We must anchor in them the love of the
nation." 'The revolution will not die' Marchers on Sunday also passed the homes of some
people killed since protests broke in December after the government tripled the
price of bread. The mother of Mahjoub al-Taj and dozens of
demonstrators stood in a small dusty courtyard named in honour of her son. "We are all Mahjoub," they chanted in unison. They paused only to quietly recite a short prayer
in memory of the student, killed in December during clashes near his
university. "You are all my children," said his
mother, a Sudanese flag tied around her shoulders. She shifted slowly between sobs and protest chants,
tears running down her cheeks. Nada Adel, a pink veil loosely framing her face and
pierced nose, said the protests would continue until the generals handed over
power. "We're fed up with the military. For decades
this country has been ruled by the military. It didn't work and it will not
work," said the 28-year-old. "Despite what they did at the sit-in, despite
the people they killed... the revolution will not die in the hearts of the
youth." 