As the head of ANC which led Limpopo Province with more than 70% of votes, Stan Mathabatha leads the most dysfunctional province in Africa. Enjoying unchallenged majority support, ANC in Limpopo province does not see the need to hold councilors, mayors and executive members to account and to responsibility vested upon them by the poor communities there. They enjoy popularity and thus there is no need to account for poor performance, mismanagement, under-delivery or no delivery they are rewarded for in every election. The National ANC leadership has reached a level where they do not hold even ordinary members accountable as well. I am not sure they are arrogant or just not worth the position they are given. All municipalities and councils in Limpopo got bad rap by Auditor General, year in and year out. Some invested money in VBS to get kickbacks when residences have no water, tar roads, electricity, jobs or better service. Former Vhembe Mayor got a promotion for investing in VBS and leaving Makhado municipality and others without reliable water supply. Did she get a job because an alleged extra marital affair proposal recording surfaced or is because she is competent? If you are silencing her husband then good job Premier Stan Mathabatha for elevating “your crush” as alleged in the recording to higher office. You rewarded mediocracy because you are one? Knowing that Limpopo Province is a semi-arid area, with low rainfall and high temperatures, water resources and water harvesting is not being prioritized at all. In Senwabarwana area (formally known as Bochum), residence of Tikiline, drink from natural spring, it is neither uncovered nor protected from domestic and wild animals. The people of Maleboho area have barricaded roads demanding tar road promised to them 25 years ago. The premier is deaf or blind to their issues. Blouberg Municipality is dysfunctional and should be awarded The Best Dysfunctional Municipality in Limpopo by Premier Mathabatha himself! If Mathabatha were competent and honest about the dire situation in Limpopo, he would have stopped corruption, reliance on consultants, inaccurate financial reporting and resource mismanagement from happening since taking office. He has not called anyone to account by now. His incompetence is displayed by his silence and non-action since the Auditor General’s report release. He is dead alive and cares less as now he focused on cruising on 2021 municipal elections. The people of Limpopo, especially Vhembe and Blouberg Municipality, are their own worst enemies. Grants and handouts have blurred their judgement as they will languish in poverty for long as no sensible investor will invest in dysfunctional municipalities, check Astral regret at Standerton! If you don’t adapt as nomads, you have no choice but to migrate to cities. Long live poverty in Limpopo Province! Long live Stan Mathabatha and cabal! - Matome Herman Seanego writes in his personal capacity.