The Western Cape, which is in the grip of a cold snap, is expected to be battered by gale force winds and heavy rain from Monday. The public is advised to take note of the following, as provided by the South African Weather Service Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over the central and southern parts of the Northern Cape, Central and Little Karoo, Cape Winelands, Breede River Valley of the Western Cape as well as the central and western parts of the Eastern Cape. Gale force north-westerly winds of 65-80 km/h are expected between Table Bay and Cape Agulhas from Monday evening into Tuesday afternoon. Heavy rain leading to localised flooding is possible over the Cape Metropole, the western parts of Cape Winelands and Overberg District of the Western Cape on Tuesday from early morning. High seas with wave heights of six to seven metres are expected between Cape Columbine and Cape Agulhas on Tuesday from early morning ,spreading to Plettenberg Bay in the afternoon, and subsiding on Wednesday morning. Strong interior north-westerly winds of (40-50)km/h are expected over the Karoo Hoogland Municipality of the Northern Cape and the Central Karoo District of the Western Cape on Monday, but over the entire Western Cape as well as the western and southern parts of the Northern Cape on Tuesday. The weather in your region: Gauteng is expected to be fine and cool but warm in the north. The expected UVB sunburn index is low. Mpumalanga, the North West and Limpopo will be fine and cool to warm. Fine and cool weather is also expected for the Free State. The Northern Cape will be fine, warm and windy but cloudy and cool with morning fog along the coast. It will become partly cloudy at times in the afternoon. Rain will set in over the south-western parts overnight. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh north-westerly. The Western Cape will be cloudy and cool along the coastal areas with morning fog, becoming partly cloudy to clear in the west, but cloudy to partly cloudy along the south coast. It will be sunny and warm over the central interior. The wind along the coast will be light easterly to north-easterly along the south coast in the morning becoming south-westerly, otherwise fresh to strong north-westerly reaching gale force between Table Bay and Cape Agulhas. The expected UVB sunburn index is low. The Eastern Cape will be windy in places in the west, otherwise fine and warm, but partly cloudy along the coast in the morning. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh south-westerly, but north in the east, becoming easterly from mid-morning. KwaZulu-Natal is expected to be fine and warm but cool in the southwest. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh northerly to north-easterly. The expected UVB sunburn index is moderate. Temperatures in your city: Western Cape Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 29.7.2019 pic.twitter.com/YQF73Bf5r5 — SA Weather Service (@SAWeatherServic) July 28, 2019   Kwazulu Natal Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 29.7.2019 pic.twitter.com/8JHNk5GWGx — SA Weather Service (@SAWeatherServic) July 28, 2019 GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android or iPhone. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 