A chief organiser for supporters of embattled eThekwini councillor Zandile Gumede says they will be challenging an interdict preventing them from marching in support of their leader. "We were meant to march last week Thursday, but authorities told us that this would not be possible. By Thursday, we will contest that in [the] High Court. The right to protest is our Constitutional right. We will definitely fight against that," Mzomuhle Dube told News24 on Tuesday. Dube, one the main organisers of Gumede's supporters, said they were studying a High Court interdict that prevents them from taking to the streets. "We want to see how it relates to us. We are very likely heading to High Court on Thursday to hear this matter." WATCH: 'We will return,' say Zandile Gumede supporters after day of violence, arrests It was a day of running battles and high emotion as Zandile Gumede supporters and police clashed on Thursday in Durban, leaving well over 20 people detained, arrested or injured by the afternoon. He said it was not clear who had applied for the interdict against them. "I don't find a specific body that the order points to. I do not know if it speaks to us or not. That is what we are going to contest this week." Keeping an eye on ANC NEC outcomes Dube said they were also closely watching any outcomes from the ANC's national executive committee (NEC) meeting over the weekend. "We haven't received anything, but maybe today there will be a briefing from the NEC. Maybe something will come up. Whatever they concluded this weekend, we may have to take it into consideration for our plans going forward." The ANC was due to present the outcomes of the meeting at 12:00 on Tuesday. Dube said they were especially hoping for a resolution on the eThekwini ANC regional structures. "We shall look at what we hear on talks regarding the structure of the region. It [the region] needs to be fully functional pending regional conference later this year."  Gumede is currently facing corruption charges in the Durban Commercial Crimes Court, relating to a Durban Solid Waste tender. She was put on 30-days "special leave" by the provincial executive, pending the outcome of their investigation. Earlier this month, her "special leave" was extended. In an interview, Gumede said she had only found out through the media that it would be extended. Since her exit from office, Gumede's supporters have marched on the ANC's headquarters in the province on three separate occasions. During a June march, they clashed with the police after they demanded that her "suspension" be lifted, as well as that the regional task team be disbanded. GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 