Former president Jacob Zuma kicked off his testimony at the Zondo commission of inquiry looking into state capture on Monday by discussing some of the allegations against him and his relationship with the Gupta family. Here are some of his top quotes: The character assassination of Zuma Zuma reiterated his long-held notion that the commission is in a fight against him. Zuma positioned himself as the victim, saying there had been a battle to push him out that went as far back as his time as deputy president, when a decision had been taken to remove him. The judge in the Schabir Shaik case, according to Zuma, said there was "a generally corrupt relationship between the two". The judge, Zuma added, said he never said this, "but everybody had been saying this, where did they get it from?" Zuma explained that this was done to enhance the nation-wide narrative that he was corrupt, and words were put in the mouth of the judge.  Meeting the Guptas for the first time Zuma spoke about the relentless effort to name him as the "kingpin" of state capture. Here, he named the Gupta family for the first time during his testimony on Monday.  The beginning of ANN7 and the New Age Zuma described the point when the seed was planted for the Guptas to start the infamous New Age newspaper. Zuma went on to explain that the Guptas briefed senior ANC officials, top six and provincial structures on the move.  The unfolding of 'the plan' to discredit Zuma Zuma states he is ready to name and shame.  'I cannot be certain' Zuma appeared unable to give clarity around questions raised when Themba Maseko, the former head of the Government Communication and Information System (GCIS), testified. The GCIS is responsible for placing adverts in the media. Responding to a statement by Maseko, which spoke of the ANC's internal inquiry into state capture, Zuma said: "I can't recall what happened to that inquiry." Maseko also alleged that Zuma had called him to meet with the Guptas about their new media venture. Zuma could not recall this. On allegations that Zuma had asked that the GCIS' entire R600m budget be allocated to the Gupta venture, he said he had no knowledge of this and would not like to comment. GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  