The plans discussed during a meeting at the Maharani Hotel to allegedly usurp President Cyril Ramaphosa are now being implemented, SACP leader Solly Mapaila claims. Mapaila was speaking at a media briefing held by the party and Ahmed Kathrada Foundation to support Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan and the fight against corruption. He said it was clear the "fight back" campaign by the state capture network was taking form. Mapaila claimed the beneficiaries of state capture corruption, "broad as they are", were the ones benefiting from money that had not yet been recovered. He said it was that money which was being used to capture the ANC itself. "That is why we can't allow this fight back to continue." In September, the Sunday Times reported that former president Jacob Zuma allegedly held a secret meeting in Durban with key ANC officials, including the party's secretary-general, Ace Magashule. READ: Complaint laid over report on alleged secret Zuma meeting over plans to oust Ramaphosa According to the report, former North West premier Supra Mahumapelo, ANC Women's League secretary-general Meokgo Matuba and ANC Youth League KwaZulu-Natal secretary Thanduxolo Sabelo also attended the meeting. The newspaper published a photograph showing Magashule, Mahumapelo, Zuma and Matuba together - apparently at the hotel. Shortly afterwards, the meeting's contents dominated the headlines as the Ramaphosa faction geared up for an internal war, with some in the national executive committee wanting to launch an investigation into the meeting. Mapaila's assertions come after Zuma's three-day testimony at the Zondo commission on state capture. During his testimony, Zuma accused Ngoako Ramatlhlodi and former general Simphiwe Nyanda of being spies for the apartheid-era intelligence services. The two men denied the allegations. ALSO READ: EXPLAINED: What you need to know about Zuma's plots, spies, the Guptas and Johann Rupert Magashule reacted to Zuma's testimony by saying the party should investigate the matter. Mapaila said he was not surprised by Magashule's reaction, adding with the secretary-general, a known Zuma ally, at the helm, he did not expect the ANC to send out a warning about Zuma's claims. "You can't have the response that is necessary from Luthuli House today. We expected much more vigorous leadership from Luthuli House." Zuma is set to continue his testimony on Friday. GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  