PERFECT weather and an exciting line-up of activities contri-buted in the SPAR Kirkwood    Wildsfees celebrating its 18th anniversary with around 45 000 people visiting the festival. Attendance over the three days of the festival was 15% up on 2018,  according to festival director Jenni Honsbein. Total attendance on Friday, June 28, was 38% up. One of the attractions was the first performance by Lira in the region. She was one of 40 of the country’s top singers and instrumentalists to perform on the giant Adventure Province Stage over the three days of the festival. “We are delighted that so many people came to kuier with us in Kirkwood for the weekend,” said Honsbein. On Saturday the grounds were close to their 20 000 capacity, with sales up by 23% on 2018. Sunday, traditionally a quieter and slower festival day, saw a 23% growth in visitors. Fully booked accommodation “Annually millions of rands are pumped into Kirkwood and surrounds by visitors from the rest of the province and South Africa attending the Wildsfees. Accommodation is fully booked for 80 kilometres from Kirkwood months before the festival. “In addition, feedback from our stallholders is that most enjoyed a bumper festival,” says Honsbein. Millions spent on quality game A clan of five hyenas from the  Addo Elephant National Park sold for a surprise R26 000 each at the Kirkwood Wildlife Festival auction which was held on Friday, June 28. The auction turned over R5 million, compared to R4,6 million in 2018. “We are very happy with the prices and the interest in the auction this year,” said auction convener Johan Swart. “We have proven that there is interest in quality game.” There was great interest from buyers at the auction and telephonic bidders for buffalo with Kruger National park genes. Previously only buffalo from the Addo Elephant National Park were auctioned. A top price of R300 000 was paid for an adult female buffalo with a  38 inch horn span and her male   calf. An adult male with a horn size of 45 ½ inches sold for R230 000.