EFF leaders have come out in support of national spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi, after the MP faced an onslaught of social media taunts for seemingly "acting" as a de-facto personal assistant to party leadership. Ndlozi was even given the moniker "Ice Boy". Now, those same leaders have come out in his defence. Former deputy finance minister Mondli Gungubele was one of the first prominent people to use the term "Ice Boy", a description of someone who gets the ice for somebody else's drinks. Addressing MPs in the National Assembly during the budget vote debate on the Presidency, Gungubele told EFF party leader Julius Malema: "The ANC is a democratic organisation. It is a led movement, with independent individuals participating freely, not up to an individual aura. Because we're not a cult, we're a democratic organisation. "What confuses you about this president, he's consultative. Every individual has got a right to express his view, something that does not happen in your party," said Gungubele, as he pointed at the EFF benches, News24 reported at the time. "They sing your song, they dance your dance, they jive your jive, they walk where you walk, they attend the party you attend. That's why they call one of your guys the 'ice boy' because they carry water for you!"   The "ice boy" issue became a hot-button topic again after two videos from the EFF's sixth anniversary celebration in Mpumalanga, showing Ndlozi "taking instructions" from Malema, went viral.   EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu has since come out in defence of his fellow caucus and party member. On Twitter, Shivambu said Ndlozi was "...the brightest, most qualified and most eloquent young revolutionary political leader in South Africa and Africa currently".   Naledi Chirwa, one of the new and youngest members of Parliament from the EFF benches, called Ndlozi "a trusted ground force of the revolution".   EFF MP Fana Mokoena said that Ndlozi was the "youngest, most educated and most influential political figure in the history of this young SA".   EFF national communications manager Sixo Gcilishe said:   Malema himself addressed the issue indirectly during his address at the birthday celebrations.    GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  