An alleged serial rapist, who is already facing 19 charges of rape, will have to answer to an additional 13 counts of rape that have been linked to him. Appearing briefly in the Pretoria Magistrate’s Court on Thursday, the 28-year-old man stood in the dock with his head down as the State announced that he had been linked to 13 more rape cases through DNA matches. State prosecutor Kagisho Rancho asked the court for a postponement so that the 13 additional charges could be added to the charge sheet . He added that an identity parade still had to be held. Legal aid lawyer Riaan du Plessis, acting on behalf of the accused, told the court that they would not bring a formal bail application until the additional charges had been added. The man, who cannot be named until he has pleaded to the charges, was arrested on July 16. ALSO READ: Man to appear in court on 19 counts of rape, after 17 women come forward According to police, at least 17 victims had originally come forward, reporting that they had been raped between June 2015 and June 2019. "The suspect would approach victims while they were walking alone and threaten them with a screwdriver or a knife. After raping them, he would then rob them of their valuable properties including cellphones and cash,” police spokesperson Colonel Lungelo Dlamini said. "He was operating alone." Seventeen of the rapes were committed in Pretoria West, with cases also reported in Atteridgeville and Vuwani in Limpopo. The alleged cross-provincial serial rapist was caught after being linked through forensic evidence and property stolen from the victims. Police believe that the accused may be linked to even more cases and have called on possible victims to contact them. The matter has been postponed to August 28 for further investigation.  GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter