The extradition of former Mozambique finance minister
Manuel Chang has been halted, after it emerged that Chang enjoys double
immunity under Mozambican law. Minister of Justice and Correctional Services Ronald
Lamola announced in a statement on Saturday that he has authorised the director-general
of the Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, Vusi Madonsela, to
file papers in response to Chang's urgent application to be surrendered to
Mozambican authorities. ALSO READ: Former Mozambican finance minister should be extradited to US on fraud charges - SA court These papers will overturn a decision by the previous
justice minister to have Chang extradited to Mozambique. Chang was arrested in South Africa
on December 29, and is wanted by the United States for his alleged involvement
in financial crimes totalling $2bn. In May, former minister Michael Masutha decided to
extradite Chang to Mozambique. Masutha's decision followed the Kempton Park
Magistrates' Court decision regarding the extraditability of
Chang to both the US and Mozambique. Not yet charged for crimes However, Lamola has now moved to reverse this decision
and has authorised the department to file an application, placing before the
court new information which was only uncovered after the initial decision to
extradite. The new information submitted to the court includes
details about the double immunity Chang is privy to under Mozambican law. "Such immunities appear to suggest that any
extradition to Mozambique will contravene the SADC Protocol, South African
Constitution and the Extradition Act. As such, the previous decision may not be
legally permissible," justice ministry spokesperson Chrispin Phiri said in
a statement. ALSO READ: US embassy disappointed by Masutha's decision to extradite Chang to Mozambique In addition, the South African Extradition Act requires
that the person to be extradited should have been charged for the crimes he is
alleged to have committed. Chang has yet to be charged, because his immunities
have not been lifted. Lamola has also received papers from a Mozambican NGO
seeking review of the Kempton Park Magistrates' Court ruling that found Chang
is extraditable to Mozambique. Lamola will not be opposing this application.  GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  