Rain is expected along the southern parts of the Western Cape coast, the southern coastline as well as the East Coast on Saturday. Warnings provided by the South African Weather Service Gale force south-westerly winds of 62km/h are expected between Port Alfred and Durban, spreading to Richards Bay while moderating from the south. High seas with wave heights of between 6 and 7m are expected between Cape St Francis and Port Edward. Special weather advisories Light snowfall is expected over the Swartberg, as well as the Outeniqua mountains overnight into tomorrow morning. Very cold conditions are expected over the southern high-ground of the Namakwa region of the Northern Cape, the Central Karoo of the Western Cape and interior of the Eastern Cape tomorrow. The weather in your region It will be fine and cold to cool in Gauteng. The expected UVB sunburn index will be high. Mpumalanga will be cloudy in the south at first. Otherwise, it will be fine and cold to cool but warm over the Lowveld. It will become cloudy in the east from the afternoon with evening drizzle along the escarpment. It will be fine and warm in Limpopo, becoming cloudy in the east from the evening with drizzle along the escarpment. The North West is expected to be cold in the south. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool. It will be partly cloudy in the southern parts of the Free State at first. Otherwise, it will be fine and cold, becoming partly cloudy in the east by the evening. The Northern Cape will be partly cloudy in the south at first. Otherwise, it will be fine and cold but very cold over the southern interior. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong. It will be partly cloudy in the western parts of the Western Cape at first, becoming sunny. Otherwise, it will be cloudy and cold to very cold over the interior with isolated showers along the south coast and adjacent interior. Light snowfall is expected over the Outeniqua and Swartberg mountain ranges in the morning. The wind along the coast will be moderate. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate. The Eastern Cape is expected to be cloudy and cold with rain and showers south of the escarpment. Morning snow is expected over the northern high-lying areas. The wind along the coast will be strong to gale force. It will be partly cloudy in places in the western parts of KwaZulu-Natal at first. Otherwise, it will be cloudy and cool but cold in places in the Midlands and west. Isolated showers are expected over the east, clearing from the south by late afternoon. The wind along the coast will be strong to near gale force. The expected UVB sunburn index will be high.  Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  