Police efforts to deal with serious crimes in the Nyanga precinct yielded positive results with the arrest of more than 40 people over the weekend for crimes that include murder, the possession of hijacked vehicles, attempted murder, defeating the ends of justice, armed robbery, business robbery, dealing in liquor and drunken driving. According to police spokesperson Captain Ntomboxolo Sitshitshi, six people were arrested in alleged possession of hijacked vehicles in Nyanga and Browns Farm and two for business robbery and armed robbery. READ: 900 arrested in month-end weekend police raids in Gauteng The two and an accomplice allegedly robbed a barber shop in Emms Drive, Nyanga after they pretended to be customers. Members of the Western Cape Flying Squad caught two and allegedly found them in possession of clients' cellphones. The accomplice fled. Battery theft Three other people were arrested after they shot at someone they accused of stealing a car battery in Browns Farm. Officials who responded to the complaint came across the three people and arrested them, allegedly after they were positively identified by the victim. The three will appear in court for attempted murder. One, who was identified as the shooter, is also expected to face an additional charge of defeating the ends of justice after he allegedly urinated on his hands to remove gun residue. Nine people were arrested for dealing in liquor during shebeen raids conducted in the precinct and 26 others were apprehended for driving under the influence of liquor. The 26 were arrested during a drunken driving operation Nyanga police and traffic officials conducted on Sunday. The nine people, aged 16 to 40, are expected to appear in the Athlone and Philippi magistrate's courts once charged for the possession of hijacked vehicles, attempted murder, defeating the ends of justice, armed robbery, business robbery, dealing in liquor and drunken driving. GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 