Five people have been killed in shootouts with police and security guards in a spate of cash-in-transit (CIT) heists in Mpumalanga last week. On Monday, three robbers were killed and two were wounded in a shootout with the police. SA Police Service (SAPS) spokesperson Vishnu Naidoo said the shootout occurred after officers "intercepted" suspects fleeing the scene of a heist at the post office in Bushbuckridge. "As the group of armed robbers were busy off-loading money from the CIT van outside the post office, where they had held the security officers at gunpoint, the multi-disciplinary SAPS team intercepted them, leading to a high-speed car chase. This led to a shootout between the suspects and the police," Naidoo said in a statement. The chase ended when police shot and killed three of the suspected robbers and wounded two. A police officer who was injured in the incident is recovering in hospital. Some managed to get away in three vehicles, including an alleged hijacked Toyota Hilux. The vehicles, 2 pistols and money were later recovered near Hazyview. PICS: Cash heist: Up to R1m reward offered after Pretoria robbery Police have notified the health department to be on the lookout for people who report to hospitals for treatment to gunshot wounds after blood stains were found in the Toyota Hilux. On Thursday, a suspect was shot dead following a foiled cash-in-transit heist in Boschfontein. A man was wounded in an ensuing shootout between security officers and the robbers near the Nkomazi Magistrate’s Court. The man and eight accomplices fled the scene in several vehicles. He later died in hospital. "At the time when the suspects were fleeing the scene, one of their vehicles collided with a tree. Police later discovered that it had been fitted with false registration number plates. An investigation is under way and police are tracking down the suspects who fled the scene", Colonel Athlenda Mathe said in a statement. On Friday, a group of would-be robbers attempted to rob a CIT vehicle in Manzini, near the Swaziland border post of Mananga. Police were unable to provide more information about the incident.