In a message sent to the Hout Bay community, the family of the murdered Ukraine tourist said: “We don’t know how to survive this tragic loss.” The tourist, Ivan Ivanov (44), was allegedly stabbed to death at East Fort in Hout Bay on Saturday 27 July. The father of three was at this tourist site when he was allegedly attacked and stabbed by three men who set off with his backpack and all his belongings. He died on the scene. To pay their last respects, the Hout Bay community gathered at East Fort on Sunday 28 July. Joining the community, were police, Community Police Forum (CPF), community crime prevention (CCP), neighborhood watch (NHW) as well as security companies Deep Blue, True Guard and ADT. Flowers were laid by the community at the site of his brutal stabbing, which is about 20 metres from the parking area. Thereafter, there was a prayer offered as well as speeches by Fareed Hoosen of True Guard and Hout Bay CPF chairperson, Anthony Chemaly. Residents also gathered at the site in an effort help take back the public open spaces from criminals. Also attending the event was ward 74 councillor Roberto Quintas. He said: “It is with great sadness that I laid these flowers down (today), so close to the cyclists and walkers of Chapman’s Peak Drive, and I sincerely hope that our South African Police Service (SAPS) and Criminal Justice System will endeavour to apply the maximum effort in ensuring the Rule of Law prevails, and that we as a local and international community can enjoy and appreciate our public open spaces without fear.” Quintas also took the opportunity to make a call to residents to help or join the neighbourhood watches or CCP. “I encouraged the community present to become as involved as possible in this fight against wanton criminality that darkens the name and reputation of this idyllic corner of the Peninsula. Whether it be by prayer, donating to the NHW or CCP, volunteering time to patrol or monitor radios or by signing and actively encouraging others to sign online petitions. “These petitions have been so successful in preventing repeat offenders known to our community from receiving bail, there is much that we as community can do to unite and play our part,” he said.The Ivanov family sent a message as a thank you to the residents. It read: “I would like to say thank you to the community for helping to find the criminal who took his life so tragically. And thank you for your prayers and commemorating his memory.” Hout Bay Police Station spokesperson Warrant Officer Tanya Lesch confirms the suspect appeared at the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court yesterday (Monday 29 July).