The City of Cape Town and taxi owners in Masiphumelele, near Noordhoek, are at odds over a new R15m taxi rank. The rank, completed in May, is yet to become operational. "The rank is there but it is not ours," Sphiwe Mgaqelwa, a taxi owner, told GroundUp. He said the taxi owners had wanted a new taxi rank for years, but they had not been involved in its planning. "During the construction we wanted to engage with the City, but it seemed like we were hindering the process and we pulled back," he said. However, before completion, he said the taxi owners raised several issues, including the size of the boardroom, the number of cars that can fit into the rank and the location of the toilets. "We have about 180 cars and that rank can fit less than 50 cars at a time," said Mgaqelwa. He said minibuses fitted, but that 24-seater buses also operated, which were not accommodated by the rank. "They are telling us that we can only operate from 04:00 till 22:00 at night in the new rank… During festive season, we work the whole night and our cars sleep at the rank because we do not have space at our houses," said Mgaqelwa. Plans for MyCiTi bus feeder route Chairperson of the Masiphumelele Taxi Association, Melikhaya Mandulo, said the new rank does not accommodate food vendors. "Those people will lose their source of income. We also saw that the City brought their own security guards and they told us we cannot bring the ones that we have hired because the rank belongs to the municipality. Those people will also be unemployed." He said there was a ticket office and that they "asked what it is for and got no answer". "It is clear to us that there are plans for MyCiTi [buses to use the rank] that we are not told about because the rank seems to be made for that," said Mandulo. Mayco Member for Transport Felicity Purchase confirmed that a feeder route was part of the future MyCiTi plans for the area. She said the Masiphumelele Taxi Association was refusing to sign a memorandum of agreement governing the use and operations of the facility. In the absence of such an agreement, the facility cannot be opened. "The City has however secured a meeting with the Masiphumelele Taxi Association for Tuesday, 23 July 2019, in an attempt to resolve the current impasse."  GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter