Chief Sebenzile Nyangilizwe Mathanzima of Qamata (and surrounding locations in Cofimvaba, near Queenstown) has vowed that the Qamata Integrated Energy Centre (IeC) will not operate until the land it is on is returned by the municipality to three local businessmen, GroundUp reported. The Thembisile Hani IeC is basically a PetroSA filling station with one pump station, on the R61 about 18km from Cofimvaba town. It was completed three years ago, but has never operated. In its 2016 report, PetroSA "committed" R14.5m for its construction and stated: "After completion in December 2016, an initial number of 14 permanent jobs (IeC manager, four cashiers, petrol attendants and cleaners) will be created. Other supplementary projects include a car wash and computer laboratory." In 2013, government reported it had held "a sod-turning ceremony ahead of the launch of a multi-million rand energy services centre". At the time, Nosizwe Nokwe-Macamo, then-PetroSA Group CEO, said the Qamata project was a matter of "corporate responsibility". "There is a dire need for affordable and quality energy products in the proposed IeC location and the surrounding villages," she said. PetroSA told GroundUp it has "fulfilled its obligations pertaining to the construction of the Qamata Integrated Energy Centre (IeC)". IeCs are described by the department as a "one-stop energy shop owned and operated by a registered community cooperative aimed at (energy) poverty alleviation in RSA’s rural hinterlands". 'I don't even have money to pay attorneys' But Chief Mathanzima says Intsika Yethu Local Municipality has taken land which he had given more than a decade ago to businessmen Gcinikhaya Buyaphi, Bantu Tshijila and Vulindlela Mbotoli. The men are from different villages under his traditional leadership. Mathanzima says the land belongs to the traditional leadership, not the municipality. The municipality says the land was used by Spoornet to house workers for railway construction, and later handed over to the municipality. The three businessmen showed GroundUp papers they say give them the sites. Mbotoli showed a letter from the Qamata Traditional Council from 2012; Tshijila from 2011 (saying it confirms he is the "legal owner" since 2007); and Buyaphi showed a "reservation certificate" from the Eastern Cape Department of Agriculture in 2005, giving him permission to build a filling station. Each of the men had their own idea as to what they wanted to do on their sites, all of them where the IeC has been built. Tshijila, from Magwala location, wanted to build tourist accommodation, but he says the municipality stopped him in 2012, saying it was municipal land. "I was away with work when one of my then-workers called me from the site saying that I am being served with court papers by the municipality to stop whatever I was doing … I told myself I will go to the Cofimvaba court when I am back … Before I got the chance to go to the court, I was told the municipality is on my site demolishing my structure." Mbotoli dreamt of building an office block to decentralise congested Cofimvaba. He was waiting for financing when he was summoned to the municipal offices and told that as he had not done anything with the site since 2003, they were taking it from him. "Look at me, I am too old. Soon I will die and I have nothing to leave my family … I don’t even have money to pay attorneys to fight for me," said Mbotoli, who is in his 80s. Chiefs 'mere custodians' of communal land Buyaphi said the municipality stole his idea to build a filling station. He said he pitched the idea in 2005 and asked the municipality if they would object. They refused permission. "Months later, the municipality wrote me a letter offering me to partner with them in my business plan. I never responded to that letter," he said. "We are willing to combine our businesses and work together, the three of us, once the municipality gives us back our land," said Buyaphi. "Since I felt that their vision will improve our villages and create job opportunities for our unemployed youth, I decided to give them the sites," Chief Mathanzima told GroundUp. "Years later, when two of them were starting to work on the sites, two municipal officials came to my home – Kholiswa Vimbayo, who was the Intsika Yethu mayor then, and municipal manager Zamuxolo Ngxadada Shasha – and [tried to] persuade me to take the sites from these men … When I refused, they told me that they will not take orders from me, as I was offering them a different piece of land. They said they are the government after all." GroundUp was unable to reach Vimbayo for comment, but Shasha said he could not comment since he is no longer working for the municipality. Spokesperson for the municipality, Zuko Ntshangana, said the land was given to the municipality by the Department of Rural Development and Land Reform. He said the chiefs are generally mere custodians of communal land. PetroSA commented: "Issues of land ownership and the access road to the facility fall under the local municipality. PetroSA is ready to hand over the facility any time it is invited to do so, and it has already trained staff to operate the centre as part of the readiness plan."  GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  