The Democratic Alliance says Gauteng Human Settlements and Urban Planning MEC Lebogang Maile's response to questions from the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) during an inquiry into Alexandra indicates that he couldn't care less about challenges faced by the township. This after the MEC clashed with the commission's chairperson, Buang Jones, on Tuesday. The exchange got heated after Jones questioned Maile about his engagements with Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba and his official visits to Alexandra, News24 reported on Tuesday. At some point, Maile even threatened to take the SAHRC to court. WATCH: Ramaphosa says Mashaba is 'scared' of protesting Alex residents President Cyril Ramaphosa visited Alexandra in Johannesburg in his capacity as ANC president on Thursday, following last week's #TotalShutdown in the area. "I know I took an oath and I know what that oath means. Don't treat me like a small boy, the human rights commission is not God, it's a Chapter 9 institution that is subject to the Constitution. READ | 'They are targeting the ANC' - Maile tells Alexandra inquiry "If you want to do that, we can meet in court. Some of the questions are irrelevant and make no sense. Don't do that. How should MECs behave. Should they not have opinions?" he said. DA Gauteng caucus leader Solly Msimanga said the party was disappointed by the MEC's reaction, adding that he was "unethical". "The ARP [Alexandra Renewal Project] was meant to improve the lives of Alexandra residents by building dignified housing and schools, developing roads, improving sanitation and service delivery. There is nothing to show for the R1.3bn spent on ARP," Msimanga said. The former Tshwane mayor said he had personally challenged Maile to conduct an oversight and walkabout of the areas where he had claimed money was spent, but was yet to receive a reply. "I gave the MEC 48 hours to rise to this challenge and add credibility to his words by conducting the oversight, but he has not yet responded to my call. "If MEC Maile has nothing to hide with regards to the role he played in ARP, why is he failing to co-operate with the SAHRC and to rise to my challenge?" Msimanga said. Msimanga added that the commission was the only hope for Alexandra residents to get answers about what happened to the money that was set aside to benefit them. GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 