Police Minister Bheki Cele, his deputy Cassel Mathale and National Police Commissioner Khehla Sitole briefed dozens of officers during the early hours of Friday morning, ahead of their deployment into Philippi East and surrounding areas. On Thursday, Cele, speaking during his budget speech in Parliament, announced that President Cyril Ramaphosa had approved the deployment of the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) to assist police to crack down on gangs and gang violence on the Cape Flats. The minister said he spoke to his counterpart in the defence department, Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, earlier this week following the murders of 13 people in Philippi in 24 hours last weekend. READ: 'I could hear the gunshots from church' - Philippi mom who lost daughter in deadly shootings WATCH: 'We are not losing the war' - Cele visits Philippi after 13 killed Minister of Police Bheki Cele on Monday visited Philippi East on the Cape Flats after 13 people were killed over the weekend. He met with the Zwilibi family whose three sons were shot and killed. The Democratic Alliance, which governs the Western Cape and Cape Town, has been calling for the involvement of the army in curbing gang violence for several years. Last year, DA leader Mmusi Maimane wrote an open letter to Ramaphosa calling for the SANDF to be deployed. "The residents of gang-ridden communities have made it clear that they want the army to help protect them. Your government has a duty to protect South Africans from crime and criminals, and I urge you to act accordingly," Maimane wrote at the time. However, on Thursday, Cele denied the president made the decision based on the DA's calls. He said government made the call after listening to community policing forums. MUST READ: 'I will bring in soldiers if necessary,' Cele tells Cape Town community who wants bad cops booted out It's unclear when the SANDF will move into the Cape Flats. On Friday morning, Cele, Mathale, Sitole and other senior police officials addressed officers before they started an operation in Philippi East. The search and seizure operation is currently underway. GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 