The possibility of handing over their faces and names to recently trending FaceApp have not deterred people from getting in on the fun. The app, which allows users to change their faces to make themselves look either young or old, has swept through social media platforms this week, despite being two years old. Powered by AI, the app has more than 80 million active users, according to its website, but that number has now almost doubled, according to reports. SEE: Celebrities try the FaceApp challenge and the results are hilarious Politicians and local celebrities have warmed up to the app, as they continue to share their "old-age photos" even with the threat that it now "owns over 150 million people's faces and names". According to FaceApp's user agreement, it owns a never-ending, irrevocable royalty free licence to do almost anything it wishes with it.  Joining in on the fun were some South African politicians and celebrities. Here is a wrap of some well-known South Africans who have used the app. DA MP Phumzile Van Damme was somewhat pleased there was a possibility she would look like her grandmother.   EFF MP Naledi Chirwa had her old-age profile all sorted out when the app revealed how she would look in years to come.   This tweet went viral after it was suggested that EFF leader Julius Malema resembled late former president Nelson Mandela.   Actress Terry Pheto's caption was simply: "At least my granny lips aren't dry."    Idols judge Somizi Mhlongo took to Instagram to share his "older version" and it seems it is a version he is looking forward to if his caption on the post is anything to go by. I can’t wait for this day. A post shared by  Somizi (@somizi) on Jul 16, 2019 at 11:34pm PDT  Listen. That’s not bad. I’ll take it. ????‍????#faceappchallenge A post shared by  Melanie Bala (@melzinbala) on Jul 16, 2019 at 10:57pm PDT  Twitter's favourite doctor, Sindi van Zyl also took part in the app frenzy.  Miss SA 2017 Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters, media personality Maps Maponyana and The Voice SA host Anele Mdoda also got in on the fun all with different reactions to their predicted old age looks. @timtebow you ready for the next 70? #agechallenge A post shared by  Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters (@demileighnp) on Jul 16, 2019 at 8:01pm PDT  Felt cute, might take my 20 daily tablets, cough up a lung, pass out, wake up in hospital and forget what happened later. That's just old age though, at least I look good???? A post shared by  Maps Maponyane (@mmaponyane) on Jul 17, 2019 at 12:41am PDT You know I’m the granny who still does a two step at the party but knows how to make a mean stew and gemerre. Steam bread as well. A post shared by  zintathu (@zintathu) on Jul 17, 2019 at 12:10am PDT  GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 