LOCAL non-profit organisation (NPO) Umvoti Aids Centre welcomed the conviction and sentencing of a 39-year-old man who was sentenced to life imprisonment at the Greytown Regional Court for the rape of his daughter. On July 24, 2018, the accused was charged for the rape of his 14-year old daughter at her home in Greytown. He was sentenced on June 29 this year. Umvoti Aids Centre manager Dumi Magwevana said: “We as the Umvoti Child Protection Forum and local NGOs are very happy about the sentence and also feel that justice has been served.” “[We] hope that it’s a lesson to all the perpetrators out there, that you don’t get away with such immoral behaviour. “To the Greytown Family Violence, Child protection and Sexual Offences and Greytown Regional Court; you have done an outstanding job because rape cases usually drag over a long time. “To the neighbours who spotted the unusual behaviour of the victim, we wish and hope that all the community members can do the same. “We will make sure the victim gets all the support she needs because we have all the resources to bring her life back. “However, I think, as local NGOs and relevant stakeholders, we need to empower our community about the definition of ‘a man’. “[We need to] instil the humane kind of behaviour, the system of Ubuntu, and build a safe and secure environment for our women and children.” Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane said: “The father had been getting away with raping her for a while until a concerned neighbour noticed the strange behaviour of the child and questioned her. “The victim broke her silence and confirmed that her father had been raping her since 2017 and threatened her with violence. “A case of rape was opened at Rietvlei SAPS and the docket was transferred to Greytown Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences for further investigation.” The accused was arrested on July 26 while at his home. He made several court appearances until he was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment. “He was also declared unfit to possess a firearm and his name will be entered into the national sexual offenders register,” Zwane added.