The police in Bloemfontein appeal to people who were defrauded by a job scam to come forward. A syndicate reportedly used the Mangaung Metro Municipality as a smokescreen to defraud desperate job seekers. This followed breakthrough in the arrest of a suspect believed to be involved in the scam to defraud desperate jobs seekers. According to Const. Peter Kareli, provincial police spokesperson, the alleged conman was arrested on Friday (19/07). Mongezi Ishmael Fihla (41) briefly appeared in the Bloemfontein Magistrate’s Court on Monday (22/07). He is expected back in court on Monday (29/07) to apply for bail. Kareli said Fihla allegedly demanded that victims pay him a certain amount of money to guarantee them jobs at the municipality. “A complainant reported the scam at the Kagisanong Police Station. The police traced the suspect, and found in his possession the CVs of people who had applied for non-existing jobs,” Kareli said. He said the suspect, who used a sedan as a taxi in Bloemfontein, allegedly convinced his passengers to submit their CVs to him, claiming that municipal jobs were available. victims whilst transporting them to different destinations around Mangaung to submit their CV’s to him, claiming there were posts available at the municipality. “His modus operandi was then to contact the victims, urging them to pay a substantial amount of money to secure the job. “The victims would then be left without money and without jobsThereafter the applicant will be left with no job having lost the money paid to Fihla for non-existing jobs,” said Kareli. “The municipality recently issued a statement strongly warning the public about the job scam in which its name was utilised to lure desperate job seekers. It was reported that a man identified as Matenchi was posing as the municipality’s human resources coordinator, inviting applicants to job interviews while demanding R4 000. The police call on the victims to report to the Mangaung police and call the investigator, Capt. Tsietsi Mapuru, on 079-464-0223.