The
Democratic Alliance (DA) wants South Africa's ambassador to the Netherlands,
Bruce Koloane, to be recalled after his "incriminating testimony" at
the judicial commission of inquiry into state capture last week. The
party's MP who focuses on international relations, Darren Bergman, said this
was after Koloane admitted under oath that he abused his office while he was
still the chief of state protocol, to benefit the Gupta family by enabling them
to land an aircraft at the Waterkloof Air Force Base in 2013. "Ambassador Koloane's actions
were a direct breach of our national security and a violation of the National
Key Point Act as he oversaw the landing of a civilian plane at a national key
point," Bergman said in a statement. He said Koloane's actions put him
in breach of the act and that he was liable for penalties. READ: Waterkloof landing: 'I abused the powers of my office,'
Koloane admits "The DA is of the view that
this is enough reason for the ambassador to be recalled," said Bergman. "He has clearly breached the
law and this makes his continued stay as an ambassador untenable." The DA also wants clarity on
reports that Koloane will conclude his term as ambassador and will stay at the
Department of International Relations and Cooperation (Dirco). Minister of International
Relations and Cooperation Naledi Pandor said last week that she intended to have a
discussion with President Cyril Ramaphosa about the suitability of Koloane's
ambassadorship in light of his testimony. "It is my intention that we
do discuss whether any particular action might be merited, be it some form of
letter or further training or any other action the president might deem
necessary," Pandor said at a press briefing ahead of her budget vote. "So it is a matter I will be
taking up," she said.  GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 