EFF leader Julius Malema has warned South Africans not to blame the red berets when they "act decisively" against President Cyril Ramaphosa. On Friday, Malema tweeted a video of himself speaking at the State of the Nation Address debate seemingly warning of things to come in light of the findings of the latest report from the Public Protector. READ: 'Unfortunate' my response wasn't given 'due consideration' - Ramaphosa responds to Public Protector's findings In the video, Malema says: "Mr President, you will not win the fight against corruption if the president is involved in allegations of money laundering. "We want the president to come clean, to explain and take the country into [his] confidence as to who are the people who donated money into the CR17 campaign and what do they stand to benefit."  Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane found Ramaphosa deliberately misled Parliament when he responded to a question about a R500 000 donation to his 2017 ANC presidential campaign in November last year. She also found he had breached the executive ethics code by failing to disclose financial interests accrued to him as a result of the donations received for the so-called CR17 campaign. The single-largest donor deposited more than R120m into the trust account from which campaign funds were disbursed. Impeachment Malema continued: "We don't have an intention, none whatsoever, to remove you as president because your people have elected you democratically but if you are going to come across as a constitutional delinquent, we'll be left with no option but to engage in an impeachment process against you. "We want you Mr President, where a mistake was made, to take full responsibility and announce what practical steps you are going to take in correcting those mistakes. "We don't see anyone in your party, if you were to be removed tomorrow, who can replace you, otherwise we would all be in a disaster. So we are in a disaster now, we don't want to be in a worse disaster. Please help South Africa by taking it into your confidence," said Malema. In another video, the EFF leader stated the party had told Ramaphosa to surround himself with "very good young men and women who will be able to give him proper advice and the mistake he did was to surround himself with the minorities, his private office is run by minorities". GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 