South African author Dianne Case, who was stabbed 14 times, is "disappointed" because the case of the man accused of attacking her has been delayed again. Tyrone Prinsloo faces two charges of attempted murder and one of hijacking after allegedly luring Case out of her home in November 2018 and stabbing her. Prinsloo pleaded guilty in terms of a plea bargain but the details of the plea have not been read in court. On Wednesday, the Wynberg Magistrate's Court heard that the prosecutor took ill last week and was booked off this week. "I'm obviously disappointed at this delay," Case said outside the courtroom. "I really thought this would be the last day," she added. 'Strong message' Case has maintained that she is not out to get revenge, but wants the court to send a "strong message" that crime has a price. At his last appearance, Prinsloo's legal representative told the court that his client needed time to "think" about the plea deal. "What I would like is for the court to send out a strong message that crime has a price. I am not out for blood; he was out for mine," Case said in July. She was frustrated at the fact that Prinsloo needed more time to "think". "He was savage toward me when he attacked me. He came to lure me from the safety of my home. My blood was all over him and in my car." Her daughter Maxine said the latest delay was an eye opener and revealed "how slowly the justice system works". She previously said she was worried about her mother's health because the case against Prinsloo had not been finalised and, like her mother, she wanted to see it come to an end. During his brief appearance, Prinsloo asked to "address the court" but after consultations with his legal representative, changed his mind. As he made his way down to the court's holding cells, he nodded briefly and smiled at people in the public gallery. The plea bargain is expected to be heard on August 15. GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 