Snow is expected over parts of the Eastern Cape while the Western Cape will be inundated with rain on Friday. Warnings Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over the Central Karoo of the Western Cape and the northern parts of the Dr Beyers Naude Local Municipality in the Eastern Cape, as provided by the South African Weather Service. Gale-force westerly to south-westerly winds of 62km/h and more are expected between Cape Agulhas and Port Alfred. High seas with wave heights of between 6m and 7m are expected between Cape Agulhas and Plettenberg Bay. Special weather advisories Strong winds of 55 to 62km/h are expected over the Karoo Hoogland of the Northern Cape, Breede River valley and Central Karoo of the Western Cape, as well as the northern and western interior of the Eastern Cape. Light to moderate snowfalls are expected on the Winterberg, Sneeuberg, Kougaberg and Tsitsikammaberg from Friday night. The weather in your region It will be fine and warm in the northern parts of Gauteng. Otherwise, it will be cool. The expected UVB sunburn index will be high. Mpumalanga will be fine and cool but warm in the Lowveld. It will be fine and warm in Limpopo. It will be windy in places in the North West. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool to warm. The Free State will be windy in places. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool but cold in the south where it will be partly cloudy. The Northern Cape will be cloudy with rain in the west. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool but cold in the south where it will be windy. The wind along the coast will be moderate. It will be windy in places along the coastal areas and over the interior of the Western Cape. Otherwise, it will be cloudy and cold with rain and showers, abating from the west from the afternoon. Heavy rain leading to localised flooding can be expected in the south-western parts in the morning. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong. The expected UVB sunburn index will be low. The Eastern Cape is expected to be cloudy, windy and cool but cold in the south. Isolated showers are expected over the southern parts. Light to moderate snowfall can be expected on the Sneeuberg, Kougberg and Tsitsikamaberg. The wind along the coast will be light in some parts and strong in other parts. It will be fine and warm but cool in the western parts of KwaZulu-Natal. It will become cloudy in the south-east by the evening. The wind along the coast will be gentle to moderate. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate.   Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days