Sudan's
ruling military council foiled an attempted military coup and at least 16
officers were arrested, state-run TV reported late on Thursday. The development comes as the
governing military council and protest movement leaders were in discussions on
a power sharing deal. "Officers and soldiers from
the army and National Intelligence and Security Service, some of them retired,
were trying to carry out a coup," General Jamal Omar of the ruling
military council said in a statement broadcast live on state television. "The regular forces were
able to foil the attempt," he said, but did not say when the attempt was
made. Thousands of Sudanese march towards defence ministry in Khartoum Tens of thousands of people took to the streets in Khartoum on Sunday demanding the ruling military hand over to civilians, in the largest demonstrations since a deadly security service raid on a protest camp three weeks ago. No more details were immediately available. The military and a pro-democracy
coalition agreed last week on a joint sovereign council that will rule for
three years while elections are organised. Power-sharing agreement Both sides say a diplomatic push
by allies was key to ending a standoff that raised fears of civil war. Sudan has been in political
deadlock since the overthrow of autocratic president Omar al-Bashir in April. The transition has been a bloody
one, as pro-democracy supporters who were camped outside the military
headquarters for weeks demanding a civilian-led interim administration, were
brutally dispersed. Opposition medics say more than
100 people were killed when the military's feared Rapid Support Forces
violently cleared the protest sit-in. Officials put the death toll at 62. Under the reported deal, five
seats would go to the military and five to civilians, with an additional seat
given to a civilian agreed upon by both sides. It was expected the final details
of the power-sharing agreement would be announced on Thursday, but it's unclear
that will now happen. 