The CEO of the RK Khan Hospital, the institution where maggots were found in a patient's mouth last week, has been "redeployed", the Department of Health said on Wednesday. "This follows a protracted investigation and directives which were in the past given to hospital management to remedy challenges, but were not acted upon," said Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu. The CEO, Dr Prakash Subban, will temporarily be replaced with Nqobile Mkhwanazi, the CEO of Queen Nandi Memorial Hospital in Empangeni, from Monday. "She will lead a multi-disciplinary team that will conduct an investigative diagnosis and develop a turnaround plan for the hospital within six months," said Simelane-Zulu. WATCH: Maggots in mouth - MEC orders probe into 'unacceptable' ordeal at RK Khan Hospital The discovery of maggots in the mouth of a patient at Durban's infamous RK Khan Hospital has been condemned by KwaZulu-Natal Health MEC Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu who said an investigation into the matter has been launched. She said Subban would now assist with the management of Saint Aidan’s Hospital, which provides specialised urology and renal care, among other services. Simelane-Zulu said the new project team at RK Khan Hospital would focus on almost all aspects of the hospital, including general hospital administration, clinical services, supply chain, patient flows and work process, infrastructure maintenance, quality assurance, and infection prevention and control. "Despite financial constraints, the department remains committed to improving the quality of care at RK Khan Hospital, as well as all other health facilities across the province," she said. The hospital came under scrutiny last week after a video surfaced showing maggots feeding on 52-year-old Abdul Ebrahim. He was allegedly left untreated for at least five days after being admitted to the hospital for gangrene treatment. Simelane-Zulu said that an investigation into the matter had been launched. GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  