The ANC team investigating if embattled eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede can continue her tenure as mayor of Durban will deliver a report to the party's provincial leadership in the coming days. This was revealed by ANC provincial spokesperson Nomagugu Simelane-Zulu on Monday, when she addressed a group of journalists at King Edward Hospital. "The team is meeting with the leadership today [Monday] or tomorrow [Tuesday] and as soon as it presents its report, a decision will be taken on how to proceed going forward." Simelane-Zulu was tight-lipped on what Gumede's fate would be but said that her one-month special leave expired on July 10. "We will convey the outcome on the day," she added. ALSO READ: Zandile Gumede unlikely to return as eThekwini mayor after 'special leave' ends - ANC insiders Speculation has been rife that Gumede, a staunch supporter of former president Jacob Zuma, will permanently vacate her office after she was placed on special leave, pending her trial in the Durban Commercial Crimes Court on corruption charges. ANC provincial secretary Mdumiseni Ntuli previously said she was placed on leave so that the ANC could delve into the criminal charges against her. Gumede is out on R50 000 bail after being arrested for fraud and corruption relating to a R208m waste removal tender. During her month-long leave, the ANC team investigated a number of matters related to Gumede, including the bail conditions and what the impact would be on operations in the eThekwini Metro should she return. Chaos since exit Since her exit from office, Gumede's supporters have marched on ANC's headquarters in the province on three separate occasions. During a June march, they clashed with the police after they demanded that her "suspension" be lifted, as well as the disbandment of the regional task team. Last week, Acting Mayor Fawzia Peer was the reported target of an alleged "poisoning" in council after Speaker William Lekgoa Mapena announced that there was paraffin in one of the water bottles handed out during the meeting. READ: 'Terrified' acting eThekwini mayor Fawzia Peer says 'paraffin water' should not be tested at in-house lab Peer reportedly left the council "abruptly", covering her mouth, according to council members who tweeted the events. The municipality later released a statement denying allegations Peer had been "poisoned". It said, as a precaution, she had gone to a doctor for a check-up. Peer would later tell News24 she was "terrified" following the incident, and wanted the water to be tested by an independent lab. Earlier that same day, council was disrupted after ANC councillors, thought to be Gumede supporters, allegedly wanted the City manager, Sipho Nzuza, to exit the meeting. This came a day after reports that he had turned state witness in Gumede's trial. An altercation ensued, with Nzuza's security detail having to step in to protect him. GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  