One of the court tussles between President Cyril Ramaphosa and Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane has been postponed in the Gauteng High Court in Pretoria. The application relates to Mkhwebane's findings that Public Enterprises Minister, Pravin Gordhan, wasn't authorised to approve the early retirement of the SA Revenue Service's deputy commissioner's early retirement with full pension benefits. According to eNCA, the application was postponed to Thursday because there was no judge available on Tuesday. The Public Protector's spokesperson, Oupa Segalwe, told News24 that "it emerged last night that there was [no] presiding officer to hear the matter". "All parties met with the deputy judge President this morning (Tuesday). He undertook to find a judge to hear the matter on Thursday," he said. ALSO READ: Public Protector finds Ramaphosa 'deliberately misled' Parliament over R500 000 Bosasa payment This comes a day after the Gauteng High Court in Pretoria ruled in favour of Gordhan and suspended her remedial action against him, pending a review. ALSO READ: Public Protector’s remedial action against Gordhan is 'vague, nonsensical' Judge Sulet Potterill ruled that Mkhwebane was not "entitled" to entertain complaints that were older than two years and that her findings on the so-called South African Revenue Services (SARS) "rogue unit" were "flawed", City Press earlier reported. Ramaphosa and Mkhwebane are embroiled in a separate urgent application aimed at suspending Mkhwebane's remedial action against him. The remedial action relates to her report on a R500 000 donation which Gavin Watson, the CEO of Bosasa (now African Global Operations) had made to Ramaphosa's 2017 ANC presidential campaign. Mkhwebane found that Ramaphosa deliberately misled Parliament about the donation and that his actions were inconsistent with his office as deputy president at the time. She also found that Ramaphosa breached the Executive Ethics Code by failing to disclose financial interests accrued to him as a result of donations received for the campaign, News24 earlier reported. Editor's note: This story has been updated to reflect that the case before the court on Tuesday was in relation to Iavan Pillay's pension and not Ramaphosa's donation matter. GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter