No progress has been made in the ANC's investigation into the possible involvement of NEC members in the mushrooming of smaller parties, deputy secretary general Jesse Duarte told journalists on Tuesday. Duarte and secretary general Ace Magashule briefed the media on the outcomes of its first ordinary NEC meeting since the general elections. This after former president Kgalema Motlanthe declined the offer to head the investigation. The party's national spokesperson had initially explained that Motlanthe refused the position due to prior international and local obligations. Duarte said the party was forced to find someone else who also declined. She added the party was looking at three to four other candidates to talk to before making a pronouncement. In June, News24 reported the investigation would look into Magashule and allegations that he was part of the formation of the African Transformation Movement (ATM). The team instructed to investigate the allegations comprises of former National Assembly speaker Frene Ginwala and advocate Fezeka Magano. The party had given the committee 60 days to investigate in June. Evidence detailing Magashule's involvement was apparently handed to the ANC's leadership by disgruntled ATM members ahead of the elections in an attempt to have the party removed from the ballot. The ATM is one of the many small parties that emerged ahead of the elections. Some have alleged the party has links to former president Jacob Zuma and Magashule who is Zuma's long-time ally. ALSO READ: 'I'm not shaken', says church man slapped with R22m defamation suit over claims ATM is brainchild of Magashule, Zuma The former secretary-general of the South African Council of Messianic Churches in Christ, Buyisile Ngqulwana, while having dropped a legal bid to have the ATM removed from the ballot, has continued to claim the party was their brainchild. Duarte however denied the formation of the investigation was based on Magashule, adding that the party went into the general elections anticipating a 60% vote win. ALSO READ: Magashule's supporters want proof of his role in ATM She said the party's research indicated that smaller political parties took 3% of the ANC's base. "Our concern was that those political parties had grown out of the ANC and it would seem with an intention to weaken the base of the ANC. It's not a concern we can leave floating around. We have to look at it. We would like to know if any NEC members were involved in the formation of these smaller parties. Not the SG." She said allegations against Magashule were made by one individual adding that they needed to be tested. GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android or iPhone. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  