It will be cold to very cold across most of the country in the morning, while temperatures are expected to increase slightly during the day on Wednesday. Warnings Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over the Central Karoo of the Western Cape, the central and southern parts of the Northern Cape, as well as the northern and central parts of the Eastern Cape, according to the South African Weather Service. Special weather advisories Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over the Inxuba Yethemba Local Municipality, the Enoch Mgijima Local Municipality, the Intsika Yethu Local Municipality and the Emalahleni Local Municipality of the Eastern Cape on Thursday. The weather in your region It will be fine and cool in Gauteng. The expected UVB sunburn index will be low. It will be fine and cool to warm in Mpumalanga and Limpopo. The North West and the Free State will be fine and cool. The Northern Cape will be cloudy and foggy along the coast and adjacent interior at first. Otherwise, it will be fine and cold to cool, but warm in the north-western parts. The wind along the coast will be light. It will be cloudy to partly cloudy over the west and south-western parts of the Western Cape. Morning fog is expected over the West Coast. Otherwise, it will be fine and cold to cool, but warm over the eastern interior. The wind along the coast will be moderate. The expected UVB sunburn index will be low. The Eastern Cape is expected to be fine and cool to warm. The wind along the coast will be light and variable. Morning mist is expected over the interior of KwaZulu-Natal. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool, but warm in the east. The wind along the coast will be gentle to moderate. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate. Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android or iPhone. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 