The duty crew of the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) Simon’s Town were activated on Thursday 27 June at 16:03 after a 30-foot local boat from Kalk Bay capsized near Simon’s Town. The Transnet National Ports Authority (TNPA) alerted the NSRI after the SA Navy Patrol reported the incident. Upon investigation, it was determined that three local men had launched the boat earlier the day from Kalk Bay harbour and they went missing. The sea rescue craft Spirit of Surfski II was launched to join the SA Navy Patrol boat searching for the men, and NSRI Kommetjie and NSRI Strandfontein launched sea rescue craft. The EMS/AMS Skymed rescue helicopter, Western Government Health Emergency Medical Services (EMS) rescue squad and ambulance, Cape Medical Response (CMR) ambulance services, ER24 ambulance services, Cape Town Fire and Rescue Services and their Fire Dive Unit, a police dive unit, the police and Law Enforcement responded to join in the search in 25 knot North westerly winds and rough sea conditions. The NSRI Airborne Sea Rescue (ASR) were placed on high alert. During an extensive air, sea and shoreline search, two of the missing men were located at sea clinging onto a flotation buoy at sea and they were recovered onto a sea rescue craft. Sadly, one of the men was declared dead and one man was transported to hospital in a critical condition suffering hypothermia. He was stabilised and is recovering in hospital. Despite the extensive search,the third man has not been found and the Police Dive Unit is tasked to continue an ongoing search operation. The SA Navy ship, SAS Protea, joined the search and they are assisting NSRI Simon’s Town and NSRI Kommetjie together with Fire and Rescue service divers to recover the capsized casualty boat. The body of the deceased has been sent to the Forensic Pathology Services. It appears from preliminary investigations that the boat may have capsized at around midday and the cause is unknown. Police have opened an inquest docket that will run in conjunction with a South African Maritime Safety Authority (SAMSA) investigation into this incident. Darren Zimmerman, NSRI Simon’s Town station commander, said: “Condolences are conveyed to family, friends and colleagues of the deceased man and thoughts are with the family, friends and colleagues of the missing man.”