Fine to cold conditions are expected across most of the country on Monday, ahead of an intense cold front that is expected from Tuesday. The Western Cape will experience windy and gusty conditions in the afternoon, but will otherwise be fine and cool to warm in the eastern parts and along the south. It will be cloudy to partly cloudy and cool in the west with light drizzle in the extreme south-west in the afternoon. The wind along the coast will be strong north-westerly reaching gale force between Cape Point and Cape Agulhas. There will be fine and cold conditions in Gauteng, Mpumalanga and Limpopo on Monday. It will be windy in some places in the North West otherwise expect fine and cool conditions. In the Northern Cape, it will be foggy at first along the coast, otherwise fine, windy and cool but warm in the north-west becoming partly cloudy in the south-west in the afternoon. Strong to gale-force interior winds of 62 to 70km/h are expected over the southern and south-western parts of the province. Fine and cool conditions are expected in the Free State, but cold along the Lesotho border and in places in the east. It will be windy, except over the central parts. It will be fine and warm in the Eastern Cape, with strong winds expected in places over the interior. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate northerly becoming south-westerly in the afternoon in the western half of the province, and a north-easterly along the Wild Coast.KwaZulu-Natal will experience fine and warm conditions but it will be cool in the south-west. The wind along the coast will be strong north-easterly north of Richard's Bay, otherwise moderate to fresh. Prepare for the cold front An intense cold front is expected over the Western and Northern Cape spreading to the Eastern Cape and Free State on Tuesday night into Wednesday. #Coldfront UPDATE: Intense cold front still on track to make landfall on Tuesday (23 July 2019). Advisories issued by the Cape Town Weather Office including: Disruptive Snowfall, Strong to Gale force winds, and Heavy Rain leading to flooding. @ReenvalSA pic.twitter.com/zzCvJ6UBEx  Strong to gale-force interior winds of 62 to 70km/h are expected over the Western Cape, Northern Cape, Free State and western half as well as the central parts of the Eastern Cape on Tuesday. Meanwhile, gale-force north-westerly winds of 65 to 70km/h are expected to spread from Cape Agulhas to Plettenberg Bay on Tuesday morning.Heavy rainfall leading to localised flooding can be expected over the Cape Winelands and the western parts of the Overberg, while disruptive snowfall is expected over the high ground of the Western Cape, south-western and southern parts of the Northern Cape on Tuesday into Wednesday. Free State Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 22.7.2019 pic.twitter.com/rZzHqNoMqW North West Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 22.7.2019 pic.twitter.com/StHh7CimHe Mpumalanga Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 22.7.2019 pic.twitter.com/djbBLfZR3q Limpopo Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 22.7.2019 pic.twitter.com/diCwku884n Northern Cape Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 22.7.2019 pic.twitter.com/YbIeeEk3op Western Cape Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 22.7.2019 pic.twitter.com/1CFLEXjbln Eastern Cape Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 22.7.2019 pic.twitter.com/GhnMU2YMUj Gauteng Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 22.7.2019 pic.twitter.com/A674St0fiT Kwazulu Natal Tomorrow 's Weather overview: 22.7.2019 pic.twitter.com/Eri8f6LpKJ   Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter.  