The DA will attempt to scupper what it considers to be a "rogues gallery" of ANC candidates to chair parliamentary committees by laying formal complaints with Parliament's Ethics Committee, nominating their own candidates and supporting other opposition parties' candidates. DA leaders addressed the media in Parliament on Monday, outlining their plans to ensure that committees' oversight work was not hamstrung by errant chairpersons. DA chief whip John Steenhuisen was joined by party leader in the National Council of Provinces Cathleen Labuschagne and national spokesperson Solly Malatsi. Steenhuisen referred to remarks made by state capture inquiry chairperson, Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, that the fourth and fifth Parliaments failed utterly in their constitutional duty to keep the executive to account. "The sixth Parliament cannot afford to follow the same route," he said. ANALYSIS: Parliamentary musical chairs: Ace denies he had a list, but here's who made it in He said one of the things the sixth Parliament could do to ensure that it did not happen again, was to hold ministers who appear before portfolio committees vigorously accountable. "The truth is, however, that a great many of the ANC's chairperson candidates have allegations of corruption hanging over their heads or have a proven track record of disregard for good governance and disrespect for the institution of Parliament," Steenhuisen said. "They have been sent to guard over our committees, but in actual fact, they are wolves in shepherds' clothing." The MPs that they are particularly concerned about (with the DA's concerns in quotation marks), are: Steenhuisen said the DA would be laying formal complaints with Parliament's Ethics Committee against those who have substantial allegations against them, as they should not be eligible for these key positions of responsibility. He said the DA would also, where appropriate, put forward their own candidates for the positions or support good candidates from other opposition parties. He said there have been informal discussions with other parties and one party will abstain from voting. "What we can't do is allow the ANC to run free." With the ANC's majority, it is unlikely that other parties' candidates will succeed, unless some ANC MPs break ranks. 'Standing up against wrongdoing' "I don't think it is futile to stand up against wrongdoing," Steenhuisen said. Looking ahead, if the DA fails to appoint different chairpersons and while the often slow process of the ethics committee winds on, Steenhuisen said they will have to use parliamentary mechanisms, strategies and tactics "to make it very difficult for those chairpersons". He said the rules were clear that a chairperson must recuse him or herself when there is a conflict of interest. The DA could table matters where these chairpersons are compromised and force them to recuse themselves. "When you have to recuse yourself from 90% of the meetings, people can ask the question: 'Is it appropriate for you to be chairing a committee in dealing with so many matters in which you yourself have a clear conflict of interest?" he said. He said the courts will not intervene in the internal management of Parliament. "We'll have to use the political realm and strategy and tactics in the house to run interference and expose, continuously, what a folly it was to appoint these compromised individuals into these key positions here in Parliament, and continuously embarrass the ANC, who will have to take responsibility for the fact that these people are continuously shown up here in Parliament," Steenhuisen said. The National Assembly's committees will elect chairpersons on Tuesday. The National Council of Provinces elected chairpersons last week. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 