Nelson Mandela Bay MMC Marlon Daniels has been accused of assault by one of his bodyguards after a scuffle over why his guards were not armed, police said on Wednesday. Police spokesperson Captain Johan Rheeder said that the allegation is that, on Tuesday night before midnight, an argument began between Daniels and two bodyguards appointed to protect him. Daniels, who is the member of the mayoral committee (MMC) for economic development, tourism and agriculture, expressed concern in June that he may be in danger over a budget vote. On a Patriotic Alliance ticket, Daniels said he had received death threats against him and his family if he did not approve the 2019/20 budget which was due to be voted on. WATCH: NMB councillor says he's received death threats ahead of budget PA councillor Marlon Daniels tells the Nelson Mandela Bay council he has received threats against him and his family if he does not support the budget vote on Wednesday. Rheeder said the argument was over why his guards were not armed. "They told him to call their supervisor for an explanation on why they were not armed." READ: NMB council: PA's Marlon Daniels becomes MMC after bizarre council sitting A "very upset" Daniels then allegedly pulled and grabbed at one of the bodyguards. Rheeder said Daniels did not hit the guard, but one security guard has opened a case of assault against him, and that this would be investigated. Daniels was reportedly one of six councillors who came forward with information of alleged threats against them and their families, if they did not vote in favour of the budget, including Cope, the United Front and the AIC. Comment from Daniels was not immediately available on Wednesday. News24 reported previously that it was during the furore over getting the budget passed that Daniels was appointed MMC. The budget was eventually passed on July 21 when Daniels joined the ANC alliance and voted in its favour. His party's one seat was the difference needed by the coalition at the end of June for passing the R21bn budget. If it had not passed, the provincial administration may have had to step in.  GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter