It will be cool to warm across the country, with light rain along the East Coast on Thursday as the cold front moves from our shores. It will be a cold start to the morning, with coastal temperatures remaining cool during the day. The weather in your region, as provided by the South African Weather Service. Gauteng will be fine and warm but cool in the south. The expected UVB sunburn index will be high. Mpumalanga will be cloudy in the east with morning fog patches over the escarpment. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool., but warm in the Lowveld. It will be cloudy in the east with morning fog patches over the escarpment of Limpopo. Otherwise, it will be fine and warm, but cool over the central interior. The North West will be fine and warm. It will be fine and cool in the Free State. Frost is expected in places over the southern interior of the Northern Cape at first. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool, but warm in the north. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. It will be fine and cool in the Western Cape. It will be partly cloudy in places over the central and eastern parts at first, with fog patches over the south-western mountains. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. The expected UVB sunburn index will be low. The Eastern Cape is expected to be fine and cool, with morning fog patches in places. Otherwise, it will be cloudy to partly cloudy. Light rain can be expected along the coast. The wind along the coast will be light to moderate. Fog patches are expected over the interior of KwaZulu-Natal. Rain is expected in the east in the morning. Otherwise, it will be cloudy and cool, becoming partly cloudy in the west in the afternoon. The wind along the coast will be moderate. The expected UVB sunburn index will be low. Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  