While thousands spent international Mandela Day volunteering for and donating to charity to celebrate what would have been former president Nelson Mandela's birthday, a Cape Town-based artist used the opportunity to try to raise funds for her childminder via social media. Lorraine Loots auctioned a painting of Mandela. In a post on Instagram, she asked her 293 000 followers to comment with their bids in US dollars and posted that the highest bid placed by the time the clock struck 16:00 GMT+2 on Thursday, July 25, would net the beautiful 23mm x 27mm painting of Tata Madiba. READ: Look at Mandela Day as 'a way of being', not an event - Graça Machel She did it for someone she described as very close to her heart, her helper and childminder Gloria Sibanda. Sibanda has been taking care of Loots' home and child for the past three years. She is a single mother of four children, including one who was orphaned when her brother was murdered. Loots said Sibanda moved to South Africa from Zimbabwe 10 years ago in search for a better life for her family. She left her alcoholic husband to protect her children. UP FOR AUCTION: Tata Madiba. 23 x 27 mm. Please comment on this post with your bid in USD. The highest bid posted before the clock strikes 4PM GMT+2 on Thursday the 25th of July wins. To receive an email an hour before the auction closes, sign up via my website. LINK IN BIO FOR THE FULL CAMPAIGN. The 18th of July is Mandela Day - the birthday of the father of our nation, who spent 67 years of his life making the world a better place. Every year, we honour his legacy by spending 67 minutes of our time trying to do the same. People volunteer their time to whatever cause is closest to their hearts, and this is what is closest to mine: instead of donating my time/money to the many, I want to help just one person. Her name is Gloria Sibanda. Gloria is an asylum seeker from Zimbabwe who came to South Africa 10 years ago in search of a better life for herself and her kids. A few years ago, she left her alcoholic husband to protect herself and her children, effectively becoming a single mother. Not long after this life-changing decision, her brother was stabbed to death and she took in his teenage daughter without a moment's hesitation, leaving her with four children to care for on a modest salary. Gloria came into our lives shortly after the birth of our son, Felix, and has been caring for him and assisting in our home for the past 3 years. She is family, and I consider her to be one of my closest friends. In the past 3 years, I have watched Gloria battle a system that seems to be sided against her, in a country where she lives in constant fear. The only home she can afford to rent is in an unsafe area 2 hours out of town. She walks 45 min through a dangerous area (often in the pouring rain) to get to the train station. Not long ago, a man was stabbed to death for his phone, right in front of her. At one point, gang of four men tried to mug her, but fortunately she managed to get away. Once she makes it to the station, the trains are almost always delayed, often because yet another train has been burned down. (continued in comments...) A post shared by  Lorraine Loots (@lorraineloots) on Jul 18, 2019 at 7:34am PDT  She added that, over the years, she watched Sibanda living in fear in an unsafe area two hours away from the city centre. Sibanda has to walk about 45 minutes, through dangerous paths, to catch a train to work. "Not long ago, a man was stabbed to death for his phone right in front of her. At one point, a gang of four men tried to mug her. But fortunately, she managed to get away. Once she makes it to the station, the trains are almost always delayed, often because yet another train has been burned down." Loots further explained that while Sibanda and fellow commuters experienced long delays, they were often vulnerable to violence. Gloria carries smile despite troubles "A few months ago, her cousin's body was found in a car riddled with bullets. Two weeks ago, a 9-year-old girl in her area was raped and murdered and found with missing body parts (to be sold for making muti). Another 9-year-old was found tied up in the graveyard behind her house, luckily still alive. Her own son is 9 years old." The two-bedroom home which Sibanda shares with her four children is in a dire state and vulnerable to the elements, especially during the cold, rainy season in Cape Town. Despite all of these struggles, Loots said Sibanda always has the biggest smile and the most contagious laugh she has ever heard. She said Sibanda was a hero who deserved much better, which was why she was on a mission to relocate her to a well-built house in a neighbourhood close to the city. This is part of the reason for the fundraising. More than 3 500 of Loots' followers liked the post by Thursday afternoon and many placed bids in the comments section. To end off her Instagram story, Loots said: "Sometimes bringing change into the world feels like an impossible task, so many people are in dire need of help, and it's overwhelming. Where do we even begin? What do we change? I think about Nelson's Mandela's words: 'It always feels impossible until it is done.' And when considering the immenseness of the task of help, of change, I am inclined to lean towards small, practical, sustainable, measurable actions. I guess that's sort-of my thing :) …" GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 