The rural community of Moorreesburg, in the Western Cape’s Swartland district, is in shock after a local woman allegedly killed her family while on a camping trip Teresa Meyer (48) then shot herself too. The incident happened at a camping ground in the Cederberg. Western Cape provincial police haven’t yet determined exactly when the murders took place, but have narrowed it down to between 18 June at 5pm and Thursday 27 June at around 10.40am. Police responded to a call from a farm in the Clanwilliam area. They found the bodies of all four family members on the scene. Luhan (58) and Teresa Meyer and their two children, Lurese (12) and Luhan Jnr (10), had all been shot in the head. According to neighbours in Moorreesburg, the family had moved there from Riebeek West about two years ago. Luhan was a former science teacher while Teresa often travelled to Pretoria on business, the neighbours say. The couple had apparently been planning on emigrating with their kids. “We don’t know exactly what happened. We’re in terrible shock,” a neighbour, who doesn’t wish to be named, tells YOU. “I got home last night and saw everyone standing outside in the street. The police were everywhere. I asked one of the children what had happened and he said, ‘Uncle Luhan and auntie Teresa were shot dead. The children too.’ “Teresa shot them all, then committed suicide. It’s horrific,” the neighbour says. On the face of it the couple were happily married and the family was close-knit. None of their friends or neighbours suspected anything was amiss. Lurese and Luhan Jnr had both been pupils at Dirkie Uys Primary School in Moorreesburg. “The children in the street were often over there to play with Teresa and Luhan’s children. They were wonderful people. “The dad, Luhan, was a gentle person and kind. He always said if the kids struggled with a school subject, they could ask him and he’d help. He often road bikes in the street with little Luhan and my own son.” Teresa didn’t look unhappy, another neighbour says. “I can’t imagine she’d do such a thing. One thinks of family murders and somehow assumes the dad would do something like that.” She says the parents in the neighbourhood have decided not to share any details of the murders with their children because it’s too upsetting. “It’s terribly hard for us to have to tell our children uncle Luhan and auntie Teresa are dead, and their [the children’s] little friends too. “One doesn’t expect a family to go camping and the mom to plan a whole murder. You don’t expect she’ll take a gun with her with the idea in her head. “The murders shouldn’t have happened. We feel guilty that none of us suspected a thing; that none of us noticed something wasn’t right.” Clanwilliam police are investigating the circumstances surrounding the family’s deaths.