People occupying land in the Lakeview informal settlement in Ennerdale have vowed not to move. Residents of Ennerdale clashed with the occupiers on Friday, demanding they vacate the area. Several shacks were demolished in the process. A number of roads leading into Ennerdale were blockaded by residents early on Friday morning. Teaching at some local schools was disrupted and vehicles were prevented from leaving or entering Ennerdale. Thabo Kgatla, who lives in the informal settlement, complained that he had no other place to go. "This squatter camp is my home and I have nowhere to go. I was renting a shack in Fine Town until few months ago, when I moved in here," he said. Brendon Munnik, who said he was born and raised in Ennerdale, said he moved to the vacant piece of land when he saw an opportunity to build a home for his family. "I am married with four children and we need our home. Lakeview is our home, where we live for free. Today, we are being accused of affecting property values, which is a lie," said Munnick. 'They must feel the pain' Ntokozo Thwala claimed that the informal settlement was their land and that no one was going to evict them. Thwala said, if residents of Ennerdale wanted them out, they should provide them with alternative accommodation. Earlier, there were clashes between residents of Lenasia South and occupiers of the Narens Farm informal settlement. A number of people who live in Narens Farm claimed Lenasia South residents had opened fire on them with live ammunition and demolished their shacks in the early hours of Friday morning, something the residents denied. Samuel Mohapi said he was woken by noises and gunshots when two of his shacks were demolished. "I want to revenge for what they did. They must feel the pain," said a visibly angry Mohapi. 'They must pay for what they did' Thabiso Mokoena claimed he witnessed a group of Lenasia South residents opening fire on two people who were running behind him. "We were all asleep in our shacks when our shacks were destroyed. "They caught us off guard. We will teach them a lesson. They must pay for what they did," he said. Lenasia resident Tebogo Baabua said they were against land occupations in their area. "We can't allow people to come wherever and illegally occupy land here," said Baabua. Pranesh Maharaj complained that land occupations had escalated crime and affected their property value. 'Can't acommodate everybody' "Land value is dropping. Our clinics are also full and can't accommodate everybody. Infrastructure is also affected because the population has doubled," Maharaj said. Lenasia South police spokesperson Khalipha Mvula said they had received claims of four people being shot at. However, Mvula said they had not received any official complaints of people being shot and injured. "At the moment, we are monitoring the situation. If indeed people were shot at, we call on witnesses and victims to come to our police station." Gauteng police spokesperson Captain Kay Makhubele said four people had been injured during clashes between Ennerdale and Lakeview residents. "We are investigating the matter and our members will continue monitoring the area," Makhubele said. GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  