A HOUSE fire which broke out last Saturday evening has left Woodlands resident Wendy­ van Wyk and her family destitute and with a home almost completely devastated after the fire ravaged through the house, destroying nearly everything in its path. The fire broke out when van Wyk’s grandson managed to get hold of a lighter. While playing with the lighter, the child mistakenly lit a curtain in one of the bedrooms on fire, whereupon he fled to a neighbours’ house due to shock. “When we finally were alerted about the fire we were in a state of panic because we couldn’t find my grandson, until we went outside and our neighbour brought him to us. “We watched helplessly as the fire destroyed our house as we waited for the fire brigade to come,” said a distraught van Wyk. The firefighters managed to contain the blaze to the house, stopping it from spreading to the neighbours house while also managing to save a few rooms, namely the lounge and a bedroom. “While we were waiting for the firemen, people from the road tried to help and put the fire out but it was futile because it had caught on like wild fire,” “Everything of ours was burned — our clothes, our appliances, our photographs. “We are still in shock over what has happened but we are happy and grateful that no one was injured or harmed during the fire,” said van Wyk, who has lived in the Jacaranda Road house for all 58 years of her life. Since the fire, the community has come to the van Wyk family’s aid with various forms of assistance being granted to her family however they are still desperate for help as most of their belongings are gone and they do not have a proper roof over their heads. Those looking to donate to the van Wyk family can contact Jenna Pieterson at 066 321 8819 or Kirsten Sharpley at 063 173 5206. Van Wyk’s grandson, who was unharmed, will be sent for counselling for trauma that he may have suffered as a result of the fire. “I have lived here all my life and I never thought that this would ever happen to us but I am thankful that we are all still healthy and were not harmed physically by the fire,” said van Wyk.