IN recent years, the government has banned corporal punishment in schools. This after frequent court cases where teachers were accused of child abuse. The children within our schooling system are now very disruptive, and teachers simply giving orders to behave has little to no effect in the classroom. Teachers and guidance counsellors seem to be overwhelmed when trying to deal with these disruptive pupils, and so the pupils continue to misbehave without any repercussions. I would like to know what alternative the Department of Education has in place of corporal punishment to reprimand pupils who are misbehaving and basically getting away scot-free. Teachers are under a tremendous amount of stress trying to cope with the situation and abide by the rules put in place by the Department of Education. Is it expected that they should just accept the disruptive and disrespectful behaviour of pupils in the classroom? The department should collaborate with the administrations in schools to have a system put in place where pupils who are constantly disruptive or disrespectful in the classroom are either placed in a special programme to help with their behavioural challenges or have to do some form of community service to learn how to interact with others. Teachers are tasked with empowering and preparing our future leaders. They are committed to what they do but they have very little power in the classroom, and the parents seem to have no control over their children either. Pupils who misbehave in class should be punished, but instead, the issue is pushed aside and the teachers are expected to act as if they are blind, deaf and dumb in these instances. We cannot have a system where teachers are the ones being punished by making them accept the disrespect that they face on a daily basis in the classroom while the pupils do as they please. This will result in a future society filled with undisciplined and reckless people. We must provide teachers with an alternative to corporal punishment. SHAAN MOODLIER Overport