The police on Monday condemned a mob attack on a station commander and several officers in Plettenberg Bay. The incident was filmed on a cellphone, and the video was widely circulated on the internet. In a statement issued by the Western Cape police commissioner's office, Eden cluster commander Major General Oswald Reddy confirmed the incident had happened on Saturday. Police spokesperson Captain Malcolm Pojie said a preliminary investigation revealed officers had responded to a murder scene in Taaibos Avenue, New Horizon, at about 15:20 on Saturday, where they found the dead body of 23-year-old Marcel Clinton Williams. "Williams was allegedly stabbed by his girlfriend's father after the two [the girlfriend and deceased] had an argument. The girlfriend allegedly reported the altercation with her boyfriend to her dad. Afterwards, the dad and other family members went to confront him." Pojie said Williams was stabbed in the neck. He collapsed in the street, where he was later declared dead by paramedics on the scene. The 53-year-old suspect was later arrested at his home after fleeing from the mob, but while the suspect was contained, disgruntled residents started to attack the police officers, threatening to take the law into their own hands. "They pelted the police officers with stones and in the process the station commander sustained a wound to his jaw for which he later received medical treatment," he added. Reddy condemned the attack. "The manner in which certain residents of New Horizon tried to take the law into their own hands left much to be desired, following an attack on police officers. Attacking those who put their lives at stake to protect the very community by arresting a murder suspect cannot be tolerated." Pojie said police vehicles were also damaged. "The vehicles will be assessed later to determine the extent of the damage and what impact it might have on service delivery." The 53-year-old suspect is scheduled to appear in the Plettenberg Bay Magistrate's Court on Monday. GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android or iPhone. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 