Gearing up for Women’s Month (August), women from three neighbourhood watches in the Diep River policing precinct are getting together to get donations for St Lukes Hospice in Kenilworth. Meadows, Southfield and Plumstead neighbourhood watches are doing the drive to help others with much-needed items for extra care. The initiative started with the Meadows Community Watch in Southfield after one of their crime fighters was diagnosed with cancer. With other members having also been affected one way or the other they decided to do something to support one of their own and also help the hospice care for those that are terminally ill better with the stuff that they will donate. Fiona Schwimmbacher, Diep River community policing forum (CPF) secretary and communications coordinator says: “One of our patrollers got sad news that she has cancer and she has to undergo treatment. We then decided we should do something to show her that we are with her on this journey and we decided to do the drive. With only a few weeks before Women’s Day, we decided to do something for the cancer patients and tie it with Women’s Month,” she says. She adds that with having cancer survivors in their patrol group they were, even more, propelled to do something. “We wanted to do this to get her involved in it as well. We all have friends and relatives that have been affected so we just want to help. “There is always a need, we just have to look a little bit harder. “It is important to do what we can do so that we help others,” she says. The watches will be collecting items like: Items being collectedWarm blankets, warm bed socks, headscarves or bandanas, ginger sweets, peppermint, ginger or lemon tea, eye mask, unscented wet wipes, alcohol-free mouth wash, lip balm, soft neck pillow and earplugs. They are also accepting monetary donations so that they can purchase the items. The last day of collection will be Thursday 8 August. V 
  For more information or to donate call Fiona Schwimmbacher on 082 350 9647