A homeless man was found dead near the Sea Point promenade in Cape Town's upmarket Three Anchor Bay suburb on Monday morning. "No foul play is suspected," police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Andrè Traut said, confirming a report by the SABC. An inquest docket was registered at the Sea Point police station. The cause of his death is not known, but temperatures in Cape Town plummeted overnight and an intense cold front, with more rain, is expected on Monday night and Tuesday. According to the SABC, their security guards were asked for help when the man could not be roused as he slept on the beach opposite the public broadcaster's building. The SABC reported that a group of people sleeping on the steps of a building that accommodates electrical equipment on the promenade, said they saw the man lying face down on the beach and went to offer him a blanket. "When he did not respond, they searched for a pulse but could not detect a heartbeat," the report continued.   Safety and Security MMC JP Smith, and Community and Health Services MMC Zahid Badroodien, said in June that field workers reach out to street people, offering assistance with access to social services, including temporary shelter, identity documents, social grants and temporary employment opportunities. In 2018, a "Safe Space", which currently houses 211 street people, was opened and the private sector has helped to find jobs for those who live there. The City also provided R699 000 worth of blankets, mattresses, non-perishable food and toiletries to NGOs. This was after a furore over the City of Cape Town's enforcement of by-laws, which led to fines for people living on the street. In response, the City said many people were not accepting the myriad interventions already in place and were engaging in "problematic behaviour", which led to complaints from residents. In the meantime, the Haven Night Shelter's CEO Hassan Khan told News24 on Monday that there were beds available at its centres, spread around the city and the province. Field workers were also reaching out to homeless people. For the first 30 days, a resident is considered a guest, and if they can pay, it costs R13 a night. If not, their stay is at no cost. The second stage after that is for longer-term work with a social worker and may include charges, but will cover a bed, a shower and food and toiletries. Anybody who wants to pay for the cost of a bed for somebody living on the streets can do so via the Haven's Buy a Bed Campaign.  GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  