A promising West Coast kickboxer was injured after apparently falling out of a window at Stellenbosch University (SU), on the same weekend that the institution was grieving the death of first-year student Leandró Hopley. "He is one of our senior fighters. Somebody that our youngsters look up to," John Booysen said of Anzel Slimmert, who is being treated in hospital. The university stated that, early on Sunday morning, an injured man had been found next to Marais House (Huis Marais), a residence on the Stellenbosch campus. "The man, who is not a student of the university, was visiting a friend in Huis Marais on Saturday evening, and presumably fell from the third floor of the residence. The circumstances leading to the incident is unclear," the university said on Facebook. "Family, friends are keeping SU staff informed about his condition." ALSO READ: Maties student death: 'No other parent should experience what we are going through' - father Students and staff affected by the incident can contact the Centre for Student Counselling and Development on 021 808 4994 between 08:00 to 16:00 during office hours, and ER24 at 010 205 3032 after hours. Booysen said that Slimmert was very fit and had started kickboxing and boxing six years ago, and also dabbled in judo. Serious back injury He had represented the Western Cape in kickboxing and was also included in the presidential team to represent South Africa. He described Slimmert as the kind of person who was trusted to look after and mentor younger people training in the sport. Booysen said Slimmert's family did not want to speak to reporters at the moment. Netwerk24 reported that he had seriously injured his back and apparently could not feel his legs. Slimmert's fall follows the death of Hopley on Friday. Hopley's life support was switched off after he apparently suffered from aspiration on Wednesday night at Visser House, also a university residence. He is thought to have taken part in a drinking game and thrown up while on his bed, but this has not been confirmed officially. Western Cape police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana said police had no record of the Hopley incident. Drinking game News reports stated that Hopley may have been part of a game aimed at beating a drinking record at a university residence. "There [are] quite a few rumours that there was a competition," his father Charl Hopley said on Tuesday. "My wish is that no other parent should experience what we are going through," Hopley told News24 via WhatsApp. The latest incidents follow another in May, when Taylië Jaap, a 19-year-old first-year BSc student, fell out of a second-floor window. Jaap later told Netwerk24 in July that a fellow student had deliberately knocked her out of a window at the Serruria Ladies Residence during an argument. The university said a judicial inquiry would be held for that incident. News of the latest incident had people asking at the bottom of the post, "What's going on in Stellies?", with others questioning whether their children were safe.  GET THE NEWS at your fingertips and download the News24 app for Android here now. Get it for your iPhone here. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter  