 Icy conditions will linger as the rain spreads across the southern and western half of the country, with snow in some parts on Wednesday. Warnings Disruptive snowfall is expected over the Namakwa southern high ground and western high ground of the Western Cape mainly in the morning, as provided by the South African Weather Service. Watches High seas with wave heights of 6 to 7m are expected along the coastal regions between Cape Columbine and Coffee Bay. Gale force westerly to south-westerly winds of 65 km/h are expected along the coast between Cape Agulhas and East London. Special weather advisories Light snowfall is expected over the Sneeuberg and Winterberg mountains tonight spreading to the southern Drakensberg overnight. The weather in your region Gauteng will be fine and cool, but cold in the south. The expected UVB sunburn index will be low. Mpumalanga will be fine and cold to cool but warm in the Lowveld. It will be fine and cool to warm in Limpopo. The North West will be cold in the south. Otherwise, it will be fine and cool. It will be cloudy and windy in the southern parts of the Free State at first, with isolated showers. Otherwise, it will be fine and cold. The Northern Cape will experience isolated light showers with a possibility of light snow, and windy conditions in the south. Otherwise, it will be fine to partly cloudy and cold. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. It will be cloudy with intermittent rain and showers across the Western Cape in the morning, clearing during the afternoon. Light to moderate snowfall is expected over the western and north-eastern high ground in the morning. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong. The expected UVB sunburn index will be low. The Eastern Cape is expected to be cloudy and very cold with light morning rain along the coast and the northern interior. Otherwise, it will be fine and cold. It will become partly cloudy by the afternoon. The wind along the coast will be strong to gale force. It will be fine and cool, but warm in the north-eastern parts of KwaZulu-Natal. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate.   Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days