EFF leader Julius Malema spent part of his final pre-election address berating the governing ANC and suggesting that blood-thirsty, black officers who target black people rather focus on ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule if they want to shoot someone. "We don't want self-hating police. You want to shoot? We don't want blood thirsty police. Are you thirsty to shoot? Go to Luthuli House and shoot Ace Magashule, a real criminal," Malema said during his party's Tshela Thupa rally on Sunday The gathering, held at Orlando Stadium, was the EFF's final rally ahead of the May 8 elections. He called on police to refrain from shooting protesters, saying that they were not fighting but seeking justice. Instead, the real criminals were in offices where they failed to deliver services. WATCH: Ace Magashule sweet talks Afrikaans voters in Hermanus ANC secretary general Ace Magashule campaigned for the upcoming national elections in Paradise Park, near Hermanus in the Western Cape on Wednesday and was initially denied entry. If the government delivered, there would be no need for demonstrations, he added. "If you want to shoot, go to Parliament and shoot the House which is full of criminals. Don't select, just shoot randomly," a heated Malema told the crowd. Suffering Malema also berated the governing ANC and white people in South Africa for the continued suffering of the majority. "My parents, let's stop the thieves who've been stealing from you, not giving you water, electricity and roads for the past 25 years," said Malema. The EFF leader stressed the point that he was not against white people, but rather fighting "white privilege". "Twenty-five years and these people have failed to restore the dignity of the African child," he added. He complained about the state of townships in the country, remarking that Soweto remained a ghetto. "Nothing has changed here to reflect. It's still a place for settlement, it's still a ghetto, a rejected place. Twenty-five years and it [the ANC] had not done anything to make this place look like Randburg, Sandton or anywhere else where you find a white person," he said, He called for an end to ANC rule, saying May 8 was not just for voting but economic freedom day. Malema spoke just a few hours after the party announced the death of his grandmother, Sarah Malema. He started by paying tribute to her and referred to her as his "confidant". The EFF leader thanked party members for their work throughout the party's campaign season. Find everything you need to know about the 2019 National and Provincial Government Elections at our News24 Elections site, including the latest news and detailed, interactive maps for how South Africa has voted over the past 3 elections. Make sure your News24 app is updated to access all our elections coverage in one place. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter 