The family of murdered toddler Orderick Lucas will have to wait even longer to get to the bottom of what happened to their little boy after the bail application of the hairdresser accused of murdering him was postponed for a third time. Alleged child killer Melvin Volkwyn will spend at least another week behind bars before his bail application is heard. Volkwyn appeared in the Blue Downs Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday where he faces charges of murder, kidnapping and defeating the ends of justice. But his bail application was again postponed – for a third time – owing to an overburdened court roll. Volkwyn has been behind bars for nearly two months. He was initially only charged with 22-month-old Orderick's kidnapping, but was later charged with his murder after the little boy's body was found in a drain near his grandmother’s house. Volkwyn was friends with Orderick’s mother Davedine Lucas. Orderick had lived with his grandmother Cornelia Scheepers in Wittebol Street, Melton Rose, but had been in his mother's care at the time of his disappearance. Lucas had asked Volkwyn to keep an eye on her son that day. She claimed Volkwyn had told her on the Monday that he had returned the child to Scheepers. Lucas said it was when she went to visit her son at her mother's house on Thursday, March 28 that she discovered that he had never been returned. The court's public benches were filled with many of Volkwyn's friends and acquaintances. The popular stylist greeted by nodding at them when he stepped into the dock. Jonathan Alexander, a friend of Volkwyn's, said outside court that proceedings needed to “come to a point”. “It’s not right,” he said. Volkwyn is being held at the Mfuleni police station at the request of his attorney after the court heard previously that he had been sexually harassed by inmates at the Goodwood Correctional Centre. Neighbourhood watch member Sarah Langford, who took part in the search for Orderick before his body was found, said it was frustrating that the matter had yet again been postponed. “We want to know what’s going on. We want answers,” she said. The bail application was postponed to May 23.