ANGRY community members of Tamboville, Thembalihle and Q Section blocked their main road with trees and burning tyres last Friday, demanding answers regarding the RDP houses that were supposed to be built in the area 22 years ago. Residents said that their RDP houses were approved in 1997 but since then, no one has come to inform them about the proceedings of this project, until last month when they saw a contractor on site starting to build foundations for some of the houses in the area. But the residents said that they will not allow the project to continue until the contractor has been formally introduced to them. About 1 636 houses need to be build in Tamboville, Thembalihle and Q Section — 416 houses in Tamboville, 804 in Thembalihle and 416 in Q Section. One of the community members, Mandla Ndlovu, said they want the contractor to be introduced to them first before work can begin. “We want to know the procedure of this project since we have three different places that were approved for RDP houses. “We want to know when these houses will be finished and we want to see the first two houses that they build so that we can decide whether we are happy with the quality or not. “We have waited for so long for these houses. “We deserve to know everything that is happening. We will not sit back and watch people do as they please in our area,” he said. Some of the community members said they were forced to demolish their houses by the contractors last month and now they do not have a place to stay. Nomabheka Chamane said it has been a month since they forced her to demolish her house. She said she now lives in one room covered with plastic because she has nowhere to go. She said they told her to demolish her house so that they could build an RDP house for her. “I am sharing this room with my child and a granddaughter. We do everything in it, we sleep, cook and bath in it. My other children have been forced to move out and rent because we could not all fit in this one room,” she said. Chamane said she is heartbroken because she does not know when her RDP house will be built. “Since they have forced us to demolish our houses they must start with us when they are building houses,” she said. Msunduzi Mayor Themba Njilo visited the area during the protest and assured the community that their problems will be solved and all their questions regarding the RDP houses will be answered. Njilo was accompanied by the housing implementing project manager from Msunduzi, Njabulo Mthembu. “We are going to have a community meeting on May 19 with all the service providers involved. We will formally introduce the company that is going to build the houses so that the project can start. You will get all the answers you need at the meeting. “We want this project to start simultaneously in all the areas to avoid trouble,” he said.