Grab the tissues! A nonagenarian was
left stunned after meeting her 70-year-old daughter for the first time after
putting her up for adoption as a baby. Moving footage and photographs show
Elizabeth Pullen standing at Sugar Mill Pond in Youngsville, Louisiana, in the
US with her eyes closed while a surprise guest is ushered towards her, Daily Mail reports. Lynne Wray, the daughter she gave up
for adoption, is told to stand back to back with her biological mother who
grabs her hand moments before they finally reunite with a sweet embrace, Metro UK reports. “You're taller than Momma!”
the 90-year-old exclaimed. Elizabeth’s
granddaughter, Wanda LeBlanc, had taken a DNA test at Christmas and noticed a
name listed – under her closest relatives – which wasn’t familiar. The name was
that of Lynne. Wanda then clicked
on Lynne’s profile which read: “I was adopted and have never met my birth family.”  Speaking to her mother, Katherine,
and grandmother about her discovery, Wanda was told Elizabeth had put a baby up
for adoption 70 years prior. A stunned Wanda decided to contact
Lynne and arranged for her grandmother to meet her adopted daughter for the
first time. US adoption procedures in the 1940s didn’t
allow mothers to see their babies after they were born which meant Elizabeth
and Lynne had never laid eyes on each other.  “My grandmother was incredibly
nervous and it was difficult for her to wait to turn around,” Wanda said. “[She] said that she felt free. She
and I have always been very close, so for me to be the person who reunited them
was special for me – my grandmother and my aunt” “My grandmother isn't in the best
health and has often questioned why God has kept her on this earth – now she
knows why,” she added.  “[Her] message is that it's never too
late and not to be fearful of opening up.” Since the reunion, Lynne's husband
and son have headed to Louisiana from North Carolina, and Lynne's adoptive
mother relayed her thanks to Elizabeth for her daughter having been a part of
their lives. Sources: Daily Mail, Metro UK 