A Malaysian climber rescued in Nepal after two nights in the open on one of the world's most treacherous mountains has died in a Singapore hospital, reports said on Friday. Chin Wui Kin, 48, succumbed to his injuries on Thursday, Singapore media said, after he was airlifted at the weekend from Nepal's capital Kathmandu where he was initially treated. The mountaineer, a doctor who worked at a hospital in the city-state, had reached the top of the 8 100m Annapurna on April 23. However, he failed to return to the nearest camp, 1km below the peak, with the rest of his group, sparking frantic efforts to find him. His guide had stumbled to the camp and raised the alarm. Thunderstorm leaves dozens dead in Nepal Over two dozen people were killed in a severe thunderstorm that swept through parts of southern Nepal and hundreds more were injured, police and officials say. A rescue helicopter spotted him waving from the snowy slopes at an elevation of around 7 500m on April 25, Seven Summit Treks, his expedition organisers, said. Four experienced Sherpas were then dropped at another camp at 6 500m and after four hours of searching and climbing found Chin in a semi-conscious state. He was airlifted to a hospital in Kathmandu for treatment after rescuers brought him down to a lower camp in a risky operation close to the summit, and his condition was described as "critical". Rescuer Nirmal Purja said the only words Chin spoke were "Can I have hot water?" Climbing experts said it was a "miracle" that Chin had survived the freezing conditions on Annapurna for so long. Hundreds of people from around the world travel to the Himalayas each year for the spring climbing season, when conditions are best. Chin had returned to Nepal after summitting Everest last year. Annapurna is avalanche-prone, technically difficult and has a higher death rate than Everest, the world's highest peak. Nine South Korean climbers were killed last October after a snowstorm swept them off a cliff on Mount Gurja, west of Annapurna. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter