In her article titled Helen Zille: My biggest mistake published on 27 May 2019 on News24,
former DA leader Helen Zille makes some thought-provoking arguments. Of
particular importance was her reflections on the transformation of the DA and
how it was allegedly used against the official opposition party by the racial
politicking machinery of the ANC and EFF. One is inclined to agree with Zille
when she argues that competent leaders of colour in the DA are incorrectly
labelled as mere puppets that are used by their white counterparts for
electioneering, particularly in black constituencies. Where I am critical of
the former Western Cape Premier is the direction the DA took, under her
leadership, in its efforts to transform from opposition party to ruling party. The path to racial transformation in a racially
fragmented polity such as South Africa is time-bound, and a seasoned and
politically conscious leader such as Zille knows this. The gradual growth of
the DA essentially began in 2006 when it assumed leadership of a coalition
government in the City of Cape Town following the 2006 local government
elections. This coalition government would be the basis on which the DA would
win the Western Cape Province in 2009, along with 16.7% of the national vote.
The year 2014 represented more growth for the DA, with the party retaining the
Western Cape Province and claiming a commendable 22.23% of the national vote,
making electoral ground in six of the remaining eight provinces governed by the
ANC. Of particular significance was the DA's capturing of 30.78% of the votes
in Gauteng Province, the economic hub of the country, if not the continent. The height of DA growth was arguably its performance
in the local government elections of 2016, where it was able to unseat the ANC
in the coveted metropolitan governments of Pretoria (Tshwane), Johannesburg and
Nelson Mandela Bay (Port Elizabeth), albeit via complex coalition agreements.
Perhaps it was this success in 2016 that got the DA excited about a possible
Gauteng victory in the 2019 general election. It is this desire to govern that
clouded DA thinking, with its strategy shifting away from non-racialism and
liberalism towards racialism with the intent of winning the black vote,
particularly in Gauteng. What the DA leadership ought to have remembered is
that its gradual rise from 2006 to 2016 had largely been a result of the party
being an actual alternative to the ANC. Unlike the ANC, the DA had ideological
clarity, firmly positioned as the apex liberal party in the political landscape
of South Africa. This was in contrast to the ideologically muddled ANC, which
is historically an ideological enigma due to its long-time alliance with the
SACP and labour (COSATU). However, the past couple of years, the DA lost its
way, and this did not start with the election of Mmusi Maimane as DA leader.
This move towards securing the black vote started under Zille's tenure and perhaps
reached its implementation stage with the election of Maimane. No disrespect to
Maimane, he is a highly capable individual, but it was very convenient to the
DA's new racial politicking path that he was catapulted (with Zille's support)
to the DA presidency while still a novice in terms of national politics. As Zille aptly put it in her article, there was no
need for the DA to adopt the racial politicking of the ANC and EFF because
black South Africans are a hybrid racial group with varying ideological
persuasions. Whilst racial politics and populism can win a certain amount of
votes, it is certainly not a sustainable path towards winning a national
election in a maturing democracy. The DA ought to have stayed true to their
image and position as an alternative liberal party, which had already claimed a
portion of the black middle class. Father Time had rewarded the DA's ideological
certainty and governance record from 2006 – 2016. Clouded by political excitement caused by consistent
electoral gains and the ANC's blunders during the Zuma years, the DA
unfortunately went the wrong way. In its efforts to fast-track its rise to the
Union Buildings in Pretoria, the DA did not respect the very foundations of its
successes. At a time when South Africans needed an alternative, the DA became a
mirror reflection of the very ANC it was starting to put under pressure. Marred
by internal divisions between the traditional liberals and the racial
politicking faction, the DA failed to capitalise on some ripe moments in South
African politics post-2016. As the paramount leader that was at the forefront
of the DA's rise, Zille will be judged harshly by history for having deserted a
path that was leading the DA in the direction of the Union Buildings - Ayabulela
Dlakavu is a Political Studies PhD Candidate at the Department
of Politics and International Relations of the University of Johannesburg (UJ).
He possesses a Bachelor of Arts in Political Studies (cum laude), a BA Honours in International Relations (cum laude) and a Master of Arts in
Political Studies.