In three separate incidents in KwaZulu-Natal on Monday, drivers of vehicles involved in collisions fled the scene. In the first incident, a man believed to be in his 40s was seriously injured in a hit-and-run incident in Shortts Retreat Road in Pietermaritzburg. ER24 personnel arrived on the scene at 07:05 to find the man lying on the side of the road. Assessments showed that the man had sustained numerous injuries and was in a serious condition. The man as treated for his injuries and provided with pain-relief medication before he was transported to Northdale Hospital for further care.In another hit-and-run incident, also in Pietermaritzburg, a man believed to be in his 20s was hospitalised on Monday afternoon after he was struck down by a vehicle in Commercial Road. ER24 emergency care practitioners arrived on the scene at 13:20 to find another service tending to the man. On assessment, paramedics found that he had sustained numerous injuries and was in a serious condition. The man was treated and provided with pain-relief medication before he was transported to Greys Hospital for further care. The vehicle that struck the man was not found on the scene. Milk truck leaves number plate behind In Verulam, north of Durban, the driver of a truck transporting dairy products fled the scene of an accident on the R102. Reaction Unit South Africa was called to the scene on the northbound lane between Phoenix and Verulam. Upon arrival, reaction officers found a grey BMW on its roof. A pedestrian and the driver sustained injuries and were treated by paramedics. According to the two occupants of the vehicle, a white truck forced them off the road. Their vehicle then climbed an embankment, flipped and injured a man walking on the roadside. The truck stopped briefly and then took off. The driver of the BMW handed officers a number plate that fell off the truck during the collision. Reaction officers have traced the ownership of the truck to Clover SA. Investigations are continuing.    KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter