AfriForum's private prosecution unit says it is ready to take chairperson of the National Council of Provinces in the fifth Parliament, Thandi Modise to trial on behalf of the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (NSPCA) for alleged animal abuse. "The investigation has been concluded and steps have been taken to bring Modise before the court. The summons was successfully served, and she must appear in court on 21 June 2019. This will be a first appearance and the case will most likely be postponed in order to set a trial date. "The statements of the witnesses (Bejani Chauke and Captain Tebogo Mokolobate) who failed to cooperate with AfriForum's private prosecution unit, were acquired," said Elias Maangwale, an investigator at the unit, in a statement on Friday. The complaint against Modise dates back to July 2014 after it was discovered that her farm was littered with carcasses of more than 50 pigs and other dead animals including geese, ducks, sheep and goats. In addition to this, the surviving animals were allegedly left without food and water, and were in a desperate state when they were discovered by the NSPCA. "This was one of the cruelest cases of animal abuse that we have ever encountered," said SPCA Farm Animal Protection Unit Manager Grace de Lange. "The severe degree of suffering that the animals had to endure, is unacceptable, and we cannot allow Modise to evade prosecution. We are thankful for the way in which AfriForum's private prosecution unit has handled this matter and for the good progress. The lobby group took on the case after it claimed the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) "failed to prosecute the matter even though there was prima facie evidence that Modise had made herself guilty of animal abuse". "This is a further step in confirming the principle that nobody is above the law. Our involvement underlines the respect that we have for the selfless work the NSPCA does for the protection of animals," said unit head advocate Gerrie Nel. Modise faces charges of animal abuse. She is expected to appear in the Potchefstroom Regional Court on June 21.