THE ANC Women’s League (ANCWL) in KwaZulu-Natal condemned an incident that occurred in New Hannover, outside Greytown, which saw a 68-year old woman repeatedly beaten and raped in her home and in bushes near her home. According to ward councillor Bonga Nzama, the suspect broke into the victim’s house while she was asleep and raped her. “The community from this area is shocked following this incident. I visited the family and had a chance to chat to the victim. “This is such a despicable act. How can you rape an elderly woman? Upon my visit at the family, I found out that the victim was sleeping alone in a room when the suspect raped her. She was dragged out from the house into the bush. She [the victim] told me that she cried and prayed because she could see that she was dying. Upon hearing the victim screaming and calling the names of her ancestors, the suspect fled on foot. Thereafter she managed to crawl back to her house and report the incident,” Nzama said. According to a report, the suspect beat and strangled the woman while repeatedly raping her. The ANC Women’s League said in a statement: “She was also forced to perform oral sex on the perpetrator before being assaulted further. She was then dragged into the veld where she was raped and beaten again. However, the family alleges that the police have been very slow to act and never even bothered to attend to the scene of the crime. It’s alleged that the suspect left his clothes at the scene. These items may offer valid clues and may even be used as evidence in a trial. It therefore boggles the mind that this crucial evidence has not been gathered by the police for safekeeping.” ANCWL provincial secretary Nonhlanhla Gabela said: “The rape and the attack on the old lady is very disturbing, but also very shocking is the manner in which the police are allegedly handing the matter. “We call on the police to speed up the investigation, while leaving no stone unturned in the process, so that the perpetrator of this heinous crime is brought to book. “We also call on community members to assist the police with any information that could lead to the arrest of the perpetrator.” The ANC Women’s League vowed to follow up with the police on this matter and keep a close eye on all the developments to “ensure that there are no further delays.” The suspect appeared at Mswathi Magistrate’s court on Monday, April 29. and the matter was adjourned for further investigation.