A RETIRED resident from Lorraine has been battling for months to obtain a new smart identity card after he was allegedly informed that a duplicate exists. According to Daniel Griesel, he has found himself embroiled in what seems to be a case of an alleged “identity theft” as the Department of Home Affairs cannot issue him with a smart card ID. Griesel and his wife, Susan Griesel, both applied for smart card IDs and passports in December last year. “We applied in the first place because we want to visit our daughter in Australia. “My wife’s application for a smart card ID and passport had no problems. I was shocked when they told me that my ID number matched an already existing ID number on the system. I completed all the forms they gave me at Home Affairs, and have even done the fingerprint process as well, but was later told that my ID number has been blocked,” Griesel said. Officials at the Port Elizabeth Home Affairs office allegedly told Griesel to bring an affidavit as proof of his identity, including his parents information and his birth certificate. Griesel commented, “I am 69 years old and my parents have passed away many years ago. I do not have their information or my original birth certificate. We have been going back and forth to Home Affairs ever since last year and they kept telling us to return the following month to collect a new ID, but I never got one. “In December last year we were there and were told my new ID would be ready by January.” According to Griesel, he has used his ID for years and have applied for four registered firearms with the same ID. “I’m a former navy official and have registered firearms. In all my years on this earth, I never had a problem with my ID. Why now? What happened to the system?” Griesel asked. Griesel has also reached out to the Democratic Alliance (DA) to help him, but his problem has still not been resolved. According to Werner Senekal from the DA, Griesel approached the DA with regard to the case. “I referred the matter to our DA shadow minister for Home Affairs, Mr Hoosen. His office is busy and we hope a solution will be found,” Senekal said. With national and provincial elections taking place next week, Griesel will not be allowed to vote. Griesel added, “I have a record of voting in the country and all over my ID are stamps of my voting record. This is unacceptable as I have a constitutional right to vote. I hope this issue will be resolved before the elections next week.” Home Affairs provincial manager, Gcinile Mabulu, said that duplicate IDs occur when two people have the same ID number or a person has two ID numbers. “We follow a detailed process when it comes to duplicate IDs and it takes some time. We urge the person to approach their local Home Affairs office to report such incidents,” Mabulu said. According to Mabulu, the current requirements to unblock an ID or resolve a duplicate ID includes an originally issued birth certificate, a clinic card or maternity certificate, copies of both parents’ IDs and a witness of 10 years if the applicant is a senior or older. At the time of going to print, the Home Affairs system was offline and Mabulu could not comment on the specific case.