The South African Weather Service has issued a warning of extremely high fire danger conditions over the interior of the Northern Cape, Eastern Cape as well as the Central and Little Karoo district of the Western Cape. Strong winds between 45 and 55km/h can be expected over the Central Karoo of the Western Cape by Thursday afternoon. The weather in your province: Gauteng will be fine and warm. The expected UVB sunburn index is high. In Mpumalanga, it will be fine and cool to warm but hot in the lowveld. It will be fine and warm in Limpopo and the North West. The Free State will be fine and cool, but warm in the west. In the Northern Cape, it will be cloudy with morning fog along the coast, otherwise fine and cool to warm. The wind along the coast will be light northerly to north-westerly. Cloudy and cool conditions can be expected in the Western Cape, with morning fog and mist along the west coast and adjacent interior. Otherwise, it will be fine over the interior and south coast where it will be warm to hot. Light evening rain can be expected over the south-western parts. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh westerly to south-westerly along the south coast in the morning becoming light and variable in the afternoon otherwise, strong to gale northerly spreading to the south coast from late afternoon but moderate to fresh north-westerly north of Saldanha Bay. The expected UVB sunburn index is moderate. In the Eastern Cape, it will be cloudy with mist in places south of the escarpment in the early morning, otherwise fine and warm.The wind along the coast will be light to moderate north-westerly. Morning fog patches can be expected over the interior of KwaZulu-Natal, otherwise, it will be fine and warm.The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh north-easterly. The expected UVB sunburn index is high. Temperatures in your city: Pretoria10°C/26°C Johannesburg10°C/25°C Vereeniging8°C/25°C Mbombela11°C/28°C Polokwane11°C/28°C Mahikeng13°C/26°C Vryburg12°C/26°C Bloemfontein10°C/26°C Kimberley14°C/28°C Upington16°C/33°C Cape Town14°C/18°C George15°C/25°C Port Elizabeth15°C/27°C East London17°C/30°C Durban18°C/29°C Richards Bay17°C/29°C Pietermaritzburg13°C/30°C Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days