Isolated showers and thundershowers are expected across five provinces, while light snowfall is expected over parts of the Eastern Cape on Tuesday. Heavy rain (50mm or more) is expected along the coast between Port Elizabeth and Port Alfred in the Eastern Cape in the early morning. Light snowfall is expected on the Drakensberg mountains of the Eastern Cape, according to the South African Weather Service. The weather in your region It will be fine and cool, but partly cloudy in the southern parts of Gauteng in the afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate. Mpumalanga will be fine and cool, but warm in the Lowveld. It will become partly cloudyin the south from late afternoon. It will be fine and cool to warm in Limpopo. The North West will be fine and cool, but partly cloudy in the south. It will be fine and cool, but partly cloudy and cold in the southern parts of the Free State, spreading to the entire province in the afternoon. Isolated showers and thundershowers are expected in the south and along the Lesotho border. The Northern Cape will be fine in the west. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and cool, but cloudy and cold in the south where isolated showers and thundershowers are expected. It will be warm in the northwest. Morning fog is expected along the coast. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. It will be fine in the western parts of the Western Cape. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy to cloudy and cool, with rain along the south coast and over the eastern interior in the morning, where it will be cold in places. The wind along the coast will be fresh to strong. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate. The Eastern Cape is expected to be cloudy and cold, with scattered showers and thundershowers. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. It will be partly cloudy over the western and northern parts of KwaZulu-Natal in the morning. Otherwise, it will be cloudy and cool, but cold in the southwest. Isolated showers and thundershowers are expected, but scattered in the south. The wind along the coast will be gentle to moderate. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate.  Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days 