“I just
want to know if he really existed,” says Willem Coetzee, his voice heavy with
emotion. “The truth
– that’s all I want.” As a young
boy, Willem – now a supervisor at a security firm – was told stories of how his
mother, Maria Magrieta Cornelia Coetzee, murdered his father, Willem Jacobus
Britz, 38 years ago in Parys in the Free State when she was pregnant with him. He doesn’t
know if there’s any truth to the shocking tale. “I’ve
contacted police in Parys but apparently there’s no record of such an
incident,” he says. “The most I
could get from my mom before she passed away four years ago was that he’d
jumped on her pregnant belly and that she’d stabbed him to death with a knife,”
Willem tells YOU.  “She
avoided a death sentence because she’d been pregnant at the time and her
husband had assaulted her, according to her.” His dad apparently
had two tattoos on his feet – “I’m tired” on the one and “Me too” on the other. And that’s
all the information Willem has. There are no pictures, and no information about
what kind of man he’d been. Willem’s
elder sister, Charmaine du Plessis, a nurse, adopted him when he was a baby and
they moved to the Bluff in Durban, KwaZulu-Natal. They’ve lost contact with the
rest of the family. In 2015
Willem got the news that his mother had passed away in her sleep in Parys. She
was 78 years old. And so, nothing came of her promise to tell him everything
about who and what his father had been. “All I want
is a picture or a grave number. Maybe he was thrown in the river. Any
information will be much appreciated,” he says. “I want him
to find closure,” says Willem’s wife, Juanita (41).  The two of
them met on the internet and got married in 2012. “Early on
in our relationship he told me about his dad. A family member of mine also
didn’t know where her dad was,” Juanita says. “She (the
family member) was unhappy because she felt she didn’t know who or what she
is.” They eventually found the man’s grave with the help of a death
certificate. “The
difference the discovery made to her was huge. I want my Willem to have the
same peace and closure,” Juanita adds. “Of course it
will open old wounds – but maybe the truth can help heal those wounds at last.”