Forwarding a false message on WhatsApp can mislead your friends and family. They may be tricked into believing something that isn't true. False information can also kill. In 2018, rumours of child kidnapping spread across WhatsApp in India, with tragic results. Viral messages on the platform have been linked to the deaths of 30 people in the country. In South Africa, WhatsApp messages have circulated that included rumours about foreign nationals, local crime trends, political conspiracies, racial attacks, and other "hot-button" issues that can fuel conflict and distrust. We should always be careful not to share fake or misleading messages. But how can we tell if a message is false? Here are five questions to ask yourself (and your friends) before you share. 1. Who wrote it? Many fake messages (especially forwarded ones) don't say who wrote the message. If we don't know who wrote it, how can we trust it? If you aren't sure who wrote the message or where its claims come from – be careful. Before you share: Ask the sender who the author and source is, and double-check the facts. 2. Can I verify the claims? Many fake messages don't give sources for the claims made, or use unreliable sources, like hoax news sites. Some fake messages claim to come from a trusted source, such as a real news site – but they're lies. If you aren't sure a claim is backed up by a trusted source – be careful. Before you share: Ask the sender if the same claim has been reported on any trusted news sites or other sources, and make sure these aren't hoax sites. Even then, double-check the facts. 3. Does the info make me scared or angry? Many fake messages try to make us scared or angry about something. They can be shocking claims about crime or kidnapping, about people from a different country or racial group, or about new government policies. If a message makes scary or shocking claims – be careful. Before you share: Ask yourself if the message is playing on people's fears or prejudices, and double-check the facts. 4. Does it include shocking pictures, video or audio? Many fake messages use pictures, video or audio to trick us. These could be edited to be misleading. They could also be taken from a different event in another time or place. If a message includes shocking pictures, video or audio – be careful. Before you share: Check if the media has been edited, and double-check to see if it's actually from a previous event or different place. 5. Am I sure this is not a hoax? If you are still not sure if the message is a hoax – be careful. Before you share: Search online to see if the message has already been fact-checked or reported as a hoax. You can also ask Africa Check to fact-check a message by contacting us on WhatsApp on 073 749 7875. Don't share information unless you are sure it's true. Just because it's on a website or social media, it doesn't mean it's true! KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter