When two men robbed 19-year-old Karabo Raselabe of her phone, they made off with more than just her means of communication. There were precious, irretrievable images of her late father on the device. She was mugged and assaulted in less than a minute while walking home from the shop in a quiet cul-de-sac in Boskruin, Johannesburg, on Sunday, May 19. In CCTV footage of the incident, a red Volkswagen Polo can be seen driving past her as she walks down the street. Two men exit the vehicle (off camera) and chase her down the road in broad daylight. A brief struggle ensues. "I started running and screaming and then they eventually caught up to me and then they attacked me," Raselabe told News24. "They held me against the ground and took the phone and left." Fighting back The brave girl chased the men as they sped off. "I thought maybe I could catch them. I thought because I was screaming so loud people would come out and they would catch them as they were still trying to get away," she said. She added that a couple in the street tried, but to no avail. Security officials were on the scene moments later and neighbours offered her comfort. Precious photos Raselabe said the men made off with the only pictures she had of her late father. "My dad died in a car accident a few years ago. And my sister, last year December she lost her phone. So I was the only one who still had those pictures." But her mother, Esther Raselabe, is just grateful that her daughter is alive. "I just say thanks [to] God because she is still alive. They didn't take her with them," the mother said. According to Raselabe, there were four men in the car and at one point, they threatened to shoot her. "Before they came after me, one of the men rolled down his window and he said: 'I will shoot you,'" Raselabe said. She didn't see any weapons. "These people, they are really bad people. She is just a little girl. She was facing four men, just for phone," her mother told News24. Although she had minor physical injuries, the 19-year-old says she is traumatised by the events. Raselabe and her mother now walk together as a safety measure. Acting with impunity Raselabe's mother's employer, Mario de Wet, told News24 that the video was shocking to watch. "… People can just do as they please with impunity." "They hit her [so hard] that she spun around and hit the ground," he said. According to De Wet, a member of the community sent the CCTV footage to police and received a case number. News24's repeated attempts to obtain comment from the Johannesburg West district police spokesperson were unsuccessful.