Twenty-five-year-old Lucky Hadebe spends his days at some of Johannesburg's busiest intersections. But what sets him apart from other street performers and beggars, is his hard work to ensure free-flowing traffic. Hadebe directs traffic in and around Sandton from 09:00 to 16:00 every day. On Tuesday morning, News24 found him doing what he does best at the Rivonia Road intersection in Morningside. Dressed in a yellow reflector jacket - which nearby construction workers lent to him - and equipped with a handy whistle, Hadebe keeps motorists moving after the traffic lights stopped working. Ready for 'work' "If I'm not here, then there are just too many cars. People start fighting with each other. They don't follow the rules. So I try and make it easier for them," Hadebe said. Video footage of Hadebe went viral on social media as motorists recorded him when they drove by. He told News24 that he already knew how famous he was and hoped it would secure him a job. "I am currently unemployed so this is my job. I wake up in the morning to come and help with the traffic. Nobody pays me for it but there are some good people who give me some money, or food, from their window when they pass by." 'Surrounded by bad company' Growing up in Alexandra, Hadebe's life quickly went downhill after his mother and grandmother died while he was in matric. "I never got a chance to finish school. I also used to take drugs and some of my family members blamed the death of my grandmother on me because of that." Hadebe said his drug addiction included cocaine and nyaope. "I was surrounded by bad company. I used to steal a lot for drugs. I've been locked up a few times, but now I just want to fix my life, make people happy and get a job," he said.  Lucky Hadebe (25) waits on an island while OUTsurance Pointsmen take over his duties at the Rivonia Road intersection in Morningside. Picture: Chanté Schatz (News24) Better than the rest As Hadebe went about his work, a motorist pulled up next to him and thanked him for his efforts. "You do a better job than those OUTsurance guys," the motorist shouted as he pulled away. As the OUTsurance pointsmen arrived to take over traffic duties, Hadebe put his whistle in his pocket and started dancing on one of the islands for entertainment. "I am a creative person. God did not give me talents to steal."  Former drug addict and beggar Lucky Hadebe dances for motorists at the Rivonia Road intersection in Morningside, Johannesburg. Picture: Chanté Schatz (News24) KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter