MORE than 100 protesters blocked the main road at the Mpanza area outside Greytown on Monday, May 27 as they demanded better services. The protesters were complaining about the shortage of water supply in the area and claimed that the driver of the water taker from the uMzinyathi District only supplied water to the supporters of the Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP). Protesters blocked the road with stones, demanding that officials from the uMzinyathi District Municipality come to address them. A resident who did not want to be named claimed that a water tanker from uMzinyathi Municipality only supplied water to IFP card-carrying members. “All residents should receive water, irrespective of their political affiliation. “Water tankers supplying water to the area only supply water to the members of the Inkatha Freedom Party. We are not happy about this,” she said. Another resident said: “Numerous complaints have been raised about a prominent member of the IFP who always instigates violence in the community. “She goes around with the driver of the water tanker and tells him to supply water only to the IFP supporters. “Water supply is a basic need that should be given to all the people,” said the angry resident. Ward councillor Thamsanqa Ndlovu said: “Representatives from uMvoti Municipality and uMzinyathi District arrived and addressed the protesting community. “We reached an agreement that the water tanker will supply water to the community.” Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said: “We can confirm the protest action in the early hours of the morning — about 150 community members barricaded the road with stones at the Mpanza area in Greytown. “No incidents [were] reported. The road was cleared and police are monitoring[ the situation]. No case was opened.” The Gazette contacted the uMzinyathi District Municipality, however they did not respond at the time of going to press. Communications manager Nomonde Nzimakwe also did not respond to the e-mail sent to her on Monday, May 27. If you would like to comment on this story, please e-mail andile.sithole@media24.com or visit the Greytown Gazette Facebook page.