One suspect was arrested, and incriminating evidence recovered, just hours after a cash-in-transit vehicle robbery in Lotus Gardens, Pretoria, on Tuesday. The cash van was robbed and bombed after collecting cash from near a post office. Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Katlego Mogale told News24 that a white Ford Ranger and a black Audi had approached the van as it was leaving and forced it to stop. "The suspects were armed with pistols and rifles." In video footage taken on the scene, one side of the van appears to have been pried open like a tin can, and the metal inside was twisted. A statement issued by spokesperson Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo said the group of robbers forced the CIT vehicle to a halt after firing shots at it. "The guards were subsequently disarmed of their side arms and the suspects used explosives to blow open the safe of the vehicle. They fled, taking an undisclosed amount of money, as well as the pistols belonging to the guards," he said. Naidoo said a joint task team - Crime Intelligence, the Hawks, Gauteng Operational Command Centre and a National Intervention team - had worked tirelessly through the night. "Intelligence led the SAPS team to a house at Kgokong Street, Atteridgeville, where they arrested one suspect and recovered the two vehicles which were used by the robbers," Naidoo said. The team also recovered a 9mm pistol belonging to one of the guards, ammunition and tens of thousands of rands. A navy blue CIT money bag was also found in the boot of one of the getaway vehicles. "The owner of the house was arrested for being in unlawful possession of arms and ammunition, and for being in possession of property suspected to be stolen." Further investigations led the SAPS team to a house in Kuba Street in Kalafong where a third vehicle, used by the robbers, was recovered. "The joint task team is hot on the heels of the robbers and will not rest until they are found and brought to book," General Khehla John Sitole said. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter