The
security guard who was recently run over by a vehicle in a parking area while
directing traffic is in a stable condition, but only time will reveal the
extent of his injuries, his family has said. After a video emerged of Mzwanele
Wellem, 39, being run over by a motorist at a shopping complex in Die Boord,
Stellenbosch on April 30, News24 set out to find out how he was doing. Many readers and social media
users were outraged by what happened and wondered whether he survived the
incident. Staff at the Superspar previously said they saw a man lying in the
parking area and thought he was dead. Johan Steyn, 39, has since
appeared in court after handing himself over to police. He was granted R2 000
bail and said he intends pleading not guilty to a charge of attempted murder
(with an alternative charge of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily
harm). Those who know Wellem say he is
shocked, traumatised and understandably not in a condition to speak. There have been no signs of activity
at his house, which is a short drive away from where the incident happened. His brother Anele told News24 on
Friday that Wellem had been for a few medical check-ups and was in a stable
condition for now. "He is healing well, but he
has a very big cut on his head which I am very worried about," he said. The extent of other possible
injuries was not yet clear. 'I have
not committed any offence as alleged' Steyn, from Kraaifontein, who
owns a general building repairs and maintenance business, said in an affidavit
that he should be released from custody because he had to look after his wife
and their one-year-old son. "I made more than one
attempt to hand myself over to the police. I was, however, informed that no
case has been opened against me as yet. Upon the third voluntary attempt, I
handed myself over to the police," he stated in his affidavit. Referring to his intention to
plead not guilty, he explained: "It is and has always been my contention
that I have not committed any offence as alleged in this matter". In
the video, which went viral on social media, the driver of a white bakkie can
be seen talking to the security guard outside the shopping complex. The
guard gestures to the driver to not drive in his intended direction, seemingly
indicating that it was a one-way road. The
interaction goes on for a few seconds, before the driver runs over the security
guard in full view of the people in the parking lot. Hit-and-run condemned One
onlooker tried to stop the vehicle, which can be seen speeding off, leaving the
guard motionless on the ground. The
Ipic Property Group (which owns the shopping centre) and its shareholders
condemned the hit-and-run. Ipic's
head of property management Mark Taylor said they were constantly liaising with
Wellem's employer to obtain information on his condition and assist where
possible. The
group was co-operating with, and closely following, the police investigation
and criminal court case. The matter was postponed to June
27, for further investigation. Two lawyers have offered to
represent Wellem in his case pro-bono. 