THE murder of an IFP member outside a voting station in Matimatolo last week, has left voters with more questions than answers. Mthokozisi Ntuli was shot dead outside his voting station at Vikindlala School on May 8. Another person, who is a member of the National Freedom Party, was injured. According to sources, people were standing outside the voting station when they were fired upon. IFP national campaign committee chairperson Narend Singh said: “We condemn this killing in the strongest of terms as there is no place in our society for political intolerance. “Circumstances surrounding his brutal death are unknown as authorities are now investigating. What is known is that Comrade Ntuli found himself amid an election-related dispute inside the voting station, which later spilled over to outside the venue.” The IFP alleged in a statement that ANC members were involved. Singh said: “We trust that the South African Police Service will leave no stone unturned in this investigation as it is critical that we get to the bottom of this matter, especially during an election. Moreover, we call on the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal to investigate internally within its ranks and to assist the police and law-enforcement authorities wherever possible. “We reaffirm our abhorrence to any kind of political violence. It is incredibly unfortunate that a blot has been left on the KZN provincial election.” Singh said the IFP is hopeful that justice will be served and that political killings in KZN will be addressed with the urgency they deserve. ANC provincial spokesperson Nomagugu Simelane Zulu warned the IFP not to politicise the matter. “Our understanding is that people were standing outside [the voting station] and there was a shooting. One person was shot dead and the other was injured. Political parties must not try to politicise this issue. It’s a criminal matter and the police will investigate the circumstances surrounding the murder,” Zulu said. Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane said: “A case of murder was opened at eMatimatolo Police Station after a 35-year-old man was allegedly shot and killed at eMatimatolo area in the early hours. The police investigation continues.” Three weeks before the elections, an IFP councillor was shot dead at his home in KwaMaphumulo. Mfazo Nzuza (44) was shot dead by gunmen on April 26. IEC spokesperson Thabani Ngwira said voting was not interrupted.