Six months after the young dietician married the love of
her life, she died after a horrific accident just 2km from her home. It was an ordinary Friday afternoon when they called her
husband, Andre (27). “I heard there was an accident and that I should come,” he
says. Kayla Burger (24) from Pretoria was travelling home when a
bus carrying passengers allegedly jumped a red traffic light and crashed into
her Volkswagen Polo on 3 May. Andre, an alarm technician, was in Nelspruit for work when
he got the news. “You have hope that everything will be okay,” he says. Kayla was rushed to the Life Eugene Marais Hospital in a
critical condition. She died five days later, on 8 May, due to severe head
injuries. “We got married on 23 November last year. We still dreamed
of emigrating to Ireland, living on a farm with a lot of dogs and having two
kids,” he says. When YOU contacted Andre a day after her tragic death, it
was as if it hadn’t sunk in yet that his wife is gone forever.  “Since I was a little boy I used to say that things happen
for a reason, but it’s different when it happens to you,” Andre says. “We were together for three-and-a-half
years, married for six months. She’s the type of person who’d do anything for
anyone. The one who’d bring stray animals home” Elmien Griessel, Kayla’s mother, couldn’t hold back her
tears when speaking of her daughter, who was so suddenly taken from them. In April, Kayla recorded more than one video in which she
speaks of depression and other aspects of the importance of mental health. Her mother says Kayla suffered from bipolar disorder and
wanted to help others through her experiences.  “Kayla was such a lovely child. She cared deeply for animals
and people. How is it that someone can be taken away just like that?” Elmien
sobs. The accident took place at the traffic light on the corner
of Soutpansberg and Steve Biko roads in Moot. “The bus should have stopped. She had right of way because
the arrow was green. She was 2km from home. Something must be done to bus
drivers who drive as they please. People should stand together. It can’t
continue like this. “How many more lives? Kayla couldn’t have died without
reason.” Elmien says several of the standing passengers in the bus
were also injured. “He hit Kayla on the passenger’s side of the car. She was
wearing her seatbelt but her head hit the side of the car quite hard. “They called us from the scene and told us to go to Eugene
Marais Hospital. “She looked bad. So many people came to the hospital to
pray for her but it was in vain. . . We decided to donate her organs. It was
difficult.” Elmien says Andre and Kayla had a real farm wedding last
year.        