Kids – they grow up so fast, so why not make it an annual tradition to
capture your family growing up. With all the instigation and orchestration that
goes behind getting the whole fam in line and everyone’s eyes open in one
photo, a family pic is bound to build some memories. But capturing an annual family photo isn’t only about securing a
memory—it can help you appreciate your life more every day. Gretchen Rubin,
author of the best-selling book The
Happiness Project, says one of the best ways to make yourself happy in the
present is to recall happy times from the past. “Photos are a great
memory-prompt, and because we tend to take photos of happy occasions, they
weight our memories to the good,” she writes. We played around with the Huawei P30 Pro’s features to see how you can
capture your annual family photo with a phone. Here are three top tips:  1. The classic “Happy
Holidays” photo The first way to capture your family is through the classic group photo –
which can easily double up as a holiday card for Granny. Round up the troops
and get everyone together in a comfortable, well-lit environment. You can make
the photo a little more special by choosing a setting that says something about
your family, letting everyone dress according to a theme or include pets or plants
that are part of the family. A good function on the Huawei P30 Pro for a general group photo is either
the HDR or HiVision mode. The phone’s 20MP ultra-wide-angle camera can also be
used to make sure that everyone gets included in the family photo. 2. The picture-perfect
portrait   Play around with individual photos by
experimenting with portrait mode. A great way to play with this function is to
focus on one family member in the foreground and have the rest of the family
blurred in the background. The Huawei P30 Pro ToF (time-of-flight) camera for example can better blur photo backgrounds
in portrait mode. 3. The family
selfie The golden rule for any family photo is to never leave a man behind. So,
don’t let the poor middle child miss out on the annual photo again just because
they were tasked with actually taking the photo. A few simple hacks to make
sure no one gets excluded is through a selfie, self-timer or panorama mode.  This post is sponsored by Huawei
produced by Brandstudio24 for News24.