A RANDOM act of kindness left Cleland resident Nicoline Brummer in awe after she was given aid by a group of Alexandra High School pupils on Friday afternoon. “While on Commercial Road I noticed a gentleman in a wheelchair struggling to move and immediately knew that God wanted me to help him,” “I prayed while on my way to help him because I knew my back would not allow me to pick him up but I continued,” said Brummer, who added that once she reached the man she could not understand him due to a language barrier. Once she reached him, and understanding she would need extra help, Brummer said she thought to approach a group of nearby boys who she could see nearby. “The boys helped me understand that this man needed to get to 50 Durban Road and they all volunteered to help push this man and get him into my car,” marvelled Brummer. Brummer said that she was also helped by another lady with transporting the man’s wheelchair as it would not into fit into her boot. “These boys did not accept any money from me and once we got the man to where he needed to be they went as far as going to the shop and using the money that I had offered them to buy the man supplies,” she said. In absolute awe of the act of kindness from those Alexandra High pupils, Brummer said that in our busy lives, and with the fast nature of things nowadays, it was a treat for her to come across such kindness. “I would not have been able to help that man were it not for those boys. In my eyes they are champions and heroes,” said Brummer. Alexandra High School lady principal Anusha Pillay said that she was informed about the event by a staff member at her school and when she found out which group of boys had assisted Brummer she was not surprised. “I am not surprised by these pupils’ willingness to help at this opportunity. “Our Alexandrians are well mannered and polite and we emphasise good values at every opportunity,” “I am so proud of them and their kind gesture and I know they will be blessed for their selfless service to someone in need,” said Pillay.