Residents of a derelict municipal building in Queens Street, Pietermaritzburg, say Msunduzi mayor Themba Njilo visited them before the elections and promised to fix their houses, but Njilo says he can’t remember going there. About 400 people live in a row of 50 houses with no toilet, GroundUp reports. Residents say Njilo visited the area as part of the ANC's campaigning ahead of the May 8 elections. "We still have ink on our thumbs," said resident Thembelihle Ngcobo. "When they have their campaigns, they come here. They make promises. We fill up their halls and City Hall. They give us t-shirts. Food parcels and t-shirts won’t give us better living conditions. They use us for votes and leave us with our problems. We are voters, but we don’t have toilets or a better roof over our heads,” said Ngcobo. Residents claim they were told years ago by a municipal official to occupy the row of houses and were promised it would be renovated. Msunduzi municipality spokesperson Ntobe Ngcobo confirmed the building belongs to the municipality, but could not confirm if the residents had been promised houses and toilets. "Our Human Settlements Unit has never had an engagement with the residents nor the respective ward councillor pertaining to a housing project for these residents." She said the unit would visit the settlement and it would be "placed on the list of many other informal settlements needing … intervention". "We advise the residents to get in touch with their ward councillor in relation to how they can be assisted with interim basic services," said Ntobe. Mayor Njilo told GroundUp he could not recall visiting the area in May. He said he would investigate the residents' concerns. He said the municipality would have to find out if the residents had invaded the building. "We cannot offer services without getting information on how the residents got there. A team will go and have a look. We will take it from there." Ngcobo says she moved in 25 years ago. "We are tired of living like animals," she said. Residents have been using a toilet at a nearby house but the owner of the house has now stopped them from doing so. They now use buckets and throw the waste into a makeshift drain they dug themselves between the houses. "We have been breathing the dirty smell for years," said Ngcobo. "The rubbish has been piling up for years. We are currently sharing one tap. The municipality installed that tap after we fought for it. There is no electricity or toilets. We made the municipality aware of the state of the life we are living." Some parts of the building have no windows. Some of the rooms have no doors and are covered with sheets of black plastic. Resident Themba Mngadi said the building conditions were making residents ill. "Almost everyone is coughing here," said Mngadi. "Conditions are very bad. We had hope when the mayor came. He told us they would look for a better place for us. After that he was nowhere to be seen. He knows about residents in Queens Street," said Mngadi. A day after GroundUp rang Njilo’s office last week, the municipal waste team had come to collect rubbish for the first time in years, said Ngcobo. She said officials were also removing electricity cables that have been connected illegally. Ward 32 councillor Shaun Atkins said the housing situation at Queen Street was "dire". "It appears that residents were given permission to occupy this land some years ago with a promise of development. These promises have not been met," he said. Njilo visited the area on Tuesday. Residents told him they were surprised he did not remember visiting there before the elections. 