What began as a game between two friends ended with the pair having bullets in their heads. The tragic incident happened on Saturday around 14:00, in Khayelitsha. It is alleged that a 27-year-old Constable from the Philippi East Police Station accidentally shot and killed his friend while they were playing at a friend’s house in Site B. When City Vision arrived at the scene a large crowd had gathered outside the house where the shooting took place. Police vehicles from different units quickly arrived at the scene and cordoned off the area to prevent residents from going closer. According to a witness and a friend of the deceased, the duo was playing and having fun. However, the fun quickly turned into a nightmare when the constable accidentally shot his 23-year-old friend. After realising what he had done, the constable reportedly turned the gun on himself. They both died on the spot. “We were all friends, we spent most of our time together and on that day there was no fight between the two of them. They were just playing and the gun went off by mistake,” she said. The witness said the officer was playing with his friend saying that he will shoot him because that is the kind of person he is. He plays rough and it was just unfortunate that the gun went off. “When he realised he had shot him in the head and in fear of what was going to be said about it he decided to take his own life as well and shot himself under the chin,” said the sobbing friend. Police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana said Khayelitsha detectives are investigating cases of murder. She said an inquest docket has also been opened. She said according to available information received the Constable was stationed at Philippi East Crime Prevention and was on duty at the time of the incident. “He allegedly shot and fatally wounded a 23-year-old man before shooting himself with his service pistol,” said Rwexana. Battling to control her emotions, the witness said the incident affected her a lot because it happened in her house and that ever since she can’t eat or sleep at night. She added that now she must bury two of her best friends.