Amid a culpable homicide case following the deaths of former racing driver Andrew Turnbull and two others in a collision, reports have emerged that he was seen dicing another vehicle shortly before the crash. Turnbull's Jaguar was involved in a high-speed collision on the R72 near Port Alfred in the direction of Kenton-On-Sea on Sunday afternoon, killing himself and passenger Ryan Byrne, 19. Police Captain Mali Govender indicated on Tuesday that a man transporting university students in a minibus had reported that the Jaguar first bumped into him from behind. They escaped unscathed, but the Jaguar then collided head-on with a Mercedes-Benz, killing driver Beulah Booysen, 87. The Herald and DispatchLIVE reported on Tuesday that an eyewitness had seen Turnbull "dicing with another car" shortly before tragedy struck. Booysen had been on her way to her retirement home in Kenton-on-Sea when she was killed, the Dispatch reported. Turnbull, 42, had been out on bail after being charged with assaulting his former partner Chere Gray. He was also accused of drug and ammunition possession in a separate case. After a successful bail application‚ he was released on R5 000 bail. 'I forgave you a long time ago' National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Phindi Louw Mjonondwane told News24 that the State was waiting for confirmation of his death and would then withdraw the charges against him. Gray took to Facebook to say she had forgiven Turnbull "a long time ago". Gray posted a photo of herself and Turnbull on Facebook, sharing the message: "There was once a time when I loved you with all of me. Regardless of what has transpired, I forgave you a long time ago..." She expressed her condolences to his family and asked everyone to respect them during their time of mourning. Times Live reported last year that, in a video, Turnbull could be seen pinning Gray against a wall, then tossing her aside as the person filming the video is heard pleading: "Andrew, please calm down." The incident reportedly happened in August. Turnbull reportedly told the Randburg Magistrate's Court in October last year that he had grabbed her by the collar and spoken harshly after she had a "relapse" and went on a shopping spree with his credit card. Some people applauded Gray's statement of forgiveness on Facebook, while others accused her of having a "short memory".