The ANC says it is not shaken that its support in the Gauteng province has dropped to below 50%, as it is "still early days". While the ANC continues to enjoy the lead, with more a million votes, its support has dropped to 49.61%. "Our feeling is that it is still too early to call it in, there are quite a significant number of outstanding results," ANC convener of legal monitoring and security in the province, Ezra Letsoalo, told News24 at the Gauteng IEC results centre in Auckland Park, Johannesburg, on Friday. "We are still optimistic that we will retain the lead. It isn't much of a drop. It is expected that you will have a fluctuation as the results come in," he said. WATCH FULL STREAM: Early projections show victories for DA, ANC The polls have closed and early projections show victories for the DA in the Western Cape and the ANC in the Northern Cape.

News24 brings you all the latest results and analysis from the IEC results centre in Pretoria. Watch. As of 10:46, 1 650 out of 2 771 (59.55%) voting districts had been tallied, indicating that the battle continues in the province.  ALSO READ: ANC remains optimistic that it will hold on to Gauteng The official opposition, the Democratic Alliance, is trailing behind the ANC with 684 260 votes (28.36%), and the EFF remains in the third spot with 336 902 (13.96%) of the votes. The ANC lost two metros - City of Tshwane and the City of Johannesburg - to the EFF and the DA in the 2016 municipal elections. Letsoalo said that this was not an indication that the party would lose the province. "No ways, the circumstances in 2016 versus now are actually quite different. I think, with the assimilation of new leadership headed by President Cyril Ramaphosa, you would have had a commitment that seeks to lead the ANC into a process of renewal, where various issues such as corruption have been tackled. "This will have an impact on ANC support in these metros," he said. At 10:57, the Gauteng Election Map on the IEC website showed that the City of Tshwane, City of Johannesburg and Ekurheleni were still being tallied, with the ANC and the DA competing for votes. "I suppose the other thing that needs to be appreciated is that most of the results are coming from the suburbia, which are not particularly the strongholds of the ANC such as the townships. When these results come in, you are bound to see a significant incline, but we remain optimistic," Letsoalo concluded. ALSO READ: Battleground Gauteng - Strong showing for ANC in JHB, Tshwane, but party well below 60% The tallying continues. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Find everything you need to know about the 2019 National and Provincial Government Elections at our News24 Elections site, including the latest news and detailed, interactive maps for how South Africa has voted over the past 3 elections. Make sure your News24 app is updated to access all our elections coverage in one place. 