The Thaba Nchu Regional Court sentenced Letuka Johannes Mojake (49) from the Moemaneng township in Marquard to an effective 12 years imprisonment after finding him guilty of rape. Magistrate Magda Jacobs sentenced Mojake on 30 April for offences that he committed on 10 June 2012. Mojake was also found guilty of rape and housebreaking with the intent to rob and for robbing the victim. Phaladi Shuping, spokesperson of the Director of Public Prosecutions in the Free State, said evidence presented in court and the investigation positively linked Mojaki to the crime. “In court, the accused denied that he is responsible for the crimes even after he was identified by the complainant. The DNA results were positive, linking him to the rape of the complainant who was six months pregnant at the time,” said Shuping. Shuping said according to evidence presented in court, Mojake broke into the house of the complainant and raped her. The accused thereafter robbed the victim of the equipment of her hair salon, as well as other belongings. The business equipment stolen included a hair cutter, two hair clippers and hair products. Other belongings stolen were a DVD player, a television set, a wrist watch and a handbag. Shuping said the total value of the items robbed is about R20 000. As aggravating evidence, State Prosecutor Tshidi Sebolai presented a victim impact statement facilitated by the court preparation officer, Tshepang Moet. The complainant stated that the incident had traumatised her and affected her financially because the accused robbed her of equipment needed to run her hair salon. Following the crime, Shu­ping said the victim was forced to relocate to another town to stay with relatives. She could no longer afford to pay rent following the closure of her salon. Mojaki’s 12 years effective sentencing for raping the woman added to the 22 years term he was already serving. Shuping said the accused was sentenced earlier for robbery and attempted murder. In court, Mojaki was described as a person who has no respect for the law because his previous convictions could not discourage him from breaking the law. He was also described as someone who has no respect for another human-being because he raped the complainant while being aware that she was pregnant. “The accused broke into the house of the complainant at night, which is a sign that the offences were premeditated. “He robbed a six months pregnant woman, who was traumatised by the presence of a stranger in her house at night. As if robbing her was not enough, he raped her,” said Sebolai. Sebolai informed the court that the offences Mojake is convicted of are prevalent in the area and it was a clear indication that the court must take the offences seriously. Jacobs stated that the court must send a strong message that these offences will not be tolerated and thus slapped Mojake with 12 years effective imprisonment.