Battle of the blood donors is underway and educational institutions are filling up pints for a good cause, and for the bragging rights of the top spot. This campaign started last year and is orchestrated by the Western Cape Blood Services (WCBS). Once again, schools are going up against each other for this year’s top spot. Last year’s winner was HTS Drostdy from Worcester. The aim for the campaign is to get educational institutions to challenge each other to see who donates the most units of blood. This annual campaign titled the Battle of the Blood Donors aims to increase blood collections and ultimately recruit new donors. This year’s challenge is until Thursday 23 May and it started on Thursday 2 April. Marike Gevers, WCBS education officer, says the winner will be determined by a pro rata formula looking at the potential eligible donors, the number of new donors, attendance numbers and total units collected. “Extra promotional activities and creative initiatives also form part of the deciding criteria. WCBS keeps tally of all the schools that participate and the winning school of each battle receives a trophy. The school that yielded the best results overall will win the prestigious title and a grand prize,” says Gevers. This year there are 32 challenges, with a total of 62 educational institutions participating in the battle. In 2018 an additional 1 774 new donors were registered and a total of 4 466 units of blood were collected. This campaign created increased awareness, great camaraderie among members of the community and ultimately increased blood collections and saved lives. Michelle Vermeulen, WCBS corporate public relations officer, says unfortunately, new schools can’t join as all the battles were already paired. “We look at all the educational clinics that take place in the term and then pair them up accordingly. “We only run this campaign at educational institutions that have blood donation clinics and it is up to them if they would like to participate or not,” she says. She adds that for one to be able to donate blood, they must be: . Older than 16 and younger than 65; . Weigh more than 50 kilograms; . Be healthy on the day of donation (no colds and flu); . Lead a safe sexual lifestyle. “It is important to donate blood, as one unit of blood can save up to three people’s lives,” she adds. Battle of the blood donors is underway and educational institutions are filling up pints for a good cause, and for the bragging rights of the top spot. This campaign started last year and is orchestrated by the Western Cape Blood Services (WCBS). Once again, schools are going up against each other for this year’s top spot. Last year’s winner was HTS Drostdy from Worcester. The aim for the campaign is to get educational institutions to challenge each other to see who donates the most units of blood. This annual campaign titled the Battle of the Blood Donors aims to increase blood collections and ultimately recruit new donors. This year’s challenge is until Thursday 23 May and it started on Thursday 2 April. Marike Gevers, WCBS education officer, says the winner will be determined by a pro rata formula looking at the potential eligible donors, the number of new donors, attendance numbers and total units collected. “Extra promotional activities and creative initiatives also form part of the deciding criteria. WCBS keeps tally of all the schools that participate and the winning school of each battle receives a trophy. The school that yielded the best results overall will win the prestigious title and a grand prize,” says Gevers. This year there are 32 challenges, with a total of 62 educational institutions participating in the battle. In 2018 an additional 1 774 new donors were registered and a total of 4 466 units of blood were collected. This campaign created increased awareness, great camaraderie among members of the community and ultimately increased blood collections and saved lives. Michelle Vermeulen, WCBS corporate public relations officer, says unfortunately, new schools can’t join as all the battles were already paired. “We look at all the educational clinics that take place in the term and then pair them up accordingly. “We only run this campaign at educational institutions that have blood donation clinics and it is up to them if they would like to participate or not,” she says. She adds that for one to be able to donate blood, they must be: . Older than 16 and younger than 65; . Weigh more than 50 kilograms; . Be healthy on the day of donation (no colds and flu); . Lead a safe sexual lifestyle. “It is important to donate blood, as one unit of blood can save up to three people’s lives,” she adds.