A grandson of the "architect of apartheid", Dr HF Verwoerd, is reportedly making his way to Parliament on a Freedom Front Plus (FF Plus) ticket. Netwerk24 reported that Dr Wynand Boshoff, son of Orania founder Prof. Carel Boshoff and FF Plus leader in the Northern Cape, has scored a seat in the National Assembly owing to the party's phenomenal growth in last week's general elections. In 2014, the FF Plus received 165 715 national votes. This time around, 414 864 people voted for the party. This is the party's best performance in a general election, News24 reported. It has grown its national support base from 0.90% in 2014 to 2.38%. WATCH: FF Plus reveals the recipe for its elections success Pieter Groenewald's Freedom Front Plus gained significant support in the 2019 elections. 

The party was able to secure six more parliamentary seats in this year's election - bringing their total up to 10. Boshoff's mother, Anna, was the daughter of Verwoerd who served as prime minister of South Africa from 1958 to 1966. His brother, also Carel, is the "president" of Orania, a whites-only town in the Northern Cape. READ: The return of the right and the coming of the volkstaat According to Netwerk24, Boshoff said he wanted to be judged on his own merits and not on those of his granddad. In the past years Orania, where he has lived since 1993, was his "weekend home" as he served as a councillor in the Sol Plaatje Municipality in Kimberley. Boshoff reportedly said he would be representing minority groups in Parliament, not only those of Afrikaners, but also those of coloured communities. WATCH: FF Plus reveals the recipe for its elections success The FF Plus is now the fifth biggest in Parliament, News24 reported. It gained six more seats, bringing its number of MPs to 10. Though tiny compared with the three leading parties - the ANC, the DA and the EFF - the gains of the FF Plus nevertheless came as something of a surprise. Former DA supporters who voted for the FF Plus in this year's election felt alienated by the party, vulnerable in a country where race dominates national discourse and concerned about a future where they believe their culture and identity is being threatened. But beyond that, it was the DA's handling of the matter around the Afrikaans teacher in the town of Schweizer-Reneke and a speech by Mmusi Maimane about "white privilege and black poverty" that pushed DA voters into the arms of the FF Plus, said Philip van Staden, a member of the party's national executive, News24 reported. Meanwhile, Carel Boshoff could lose his job as Orania's president over "irregularities", Beeld reported in April. The purchase of Mercedes-Benz, a 45% salary increase, and a long list of accusations of mismanagement and infighting are some of the issues reportedly plaguing Boshoff. According to Sarel Roets, vice president of the Orania movement, its citizens' council will meet in May to discuss these alleged irregularities. KEEP UPDATED on the latest news by subscribing to our FREE newsletter. - FOLLOW News24 on Twitter Find everything you need to know about the 2019 National and Provincial Government Elections at our News24 Elections site, including the latest news and detailed, interactive maps for how South Africa has voted over the past 3 elections. Make sure your News24 app is updated to access all our elections coverage in one place. 