To best enjoy the beautiful southern view on the
Stellenbosch and Kogelberg mountains, Sharon and I put our home's living room
on the second storey. This provides an unobstructed view over vineyards stretching
up the slopes. To visit our neighbours the Mabelas, as I was doing this
morning, one must go from the living room down a few dozen steps to street
level. Then there is another stairway up to their front door. As always, Ouma Emily called out a
friendly "Come in!" and I entered to find her sitting on the sofa
with the view on Helderberg. She was hemming green, yellow and red kitchen
towels that had been cut into quarters. They were going to be mini dishcloths
for children in the crèche to dry their dishes. I went to sit with her on the
sofa. Our conversation eventually turned towards the topic of Naledi's
schooling in Soweto during the time of Bantu Education. "I could feel before 16th
June 1976 that something was taking place, but I couldn't put my finger on it.
One day, my nine-year-old daughter, Naledi, came to me, 'Ma, if you don't see
me tonight, don't be surprised.' "I found out what they were
busy with. They were looking through dustbins and taking all the clean ones to
a certain spot. They were using the dustbins to store food. We didn't know. We
had wondered why the dustbins were disappearing. The food was for those
children who were in hiding, those children who were already being hunted by the
police. Winter coats would just disappear, such things. We didn't know what was
going on, until we heard on the news that the children were dissatisfied
because they would now have to learn everything in Afrikaans. Even then, most
of our teachers were not trained. I don't know if it was because of
separate education or what, but our teachers were not trained to teach things
like maths, science and so on. But they were thrown into classrooms – 'You are
a teacher, you teach!' If you don't know maths, how do you teach a child maths? "We only knew that the
teachers were dissatisfied, but we didn't get the true story of what is
happening. On the 16th of June my daughter said to me, 'Mummy, are you going to
work?' "I said: 'Yes, fortunately I
work nearby, so even if they are struggling with taxis, I will walk back home.' "She said: 'If I were you, I
wouldn't go.' "I did go to work that day
[because] when I got to the clinic there were a lot of police. They said, 'People,
you have to go home.' "'Why?' "'Things are bad. The
children are marching.' "The children were gathering
one another from one school to the next, and they were forming this big march
to go into town. That's when the trouble started. The police started shooting.
There were helicopters, hippos [armoured military vehicles], mellow yellows –
that's what we called police cars. It was just busy. Police, police, police
with guns, all over. And the hippos with black people in them. I didn't know what
language they spoke, I didn't know if they were taken from other countries to
come and patrol our streets. With the white guys I was brave enough, I said, 'Guys,
what is happening?' "They would say, 'We have
just been told to come here to keep order. We don't like the position we are
in, but a job is a job and we have to follow orders.' "You could see that they were
scared. They didn't know what was happening. They were just young white boys
who should still be in high school perhaps. They were so young, nothing had
been explained to them, they were just thrown into a situation like that. With
the black guys you would try and speak to them in English but they would just
show that they don't understand. You could see that they were not local. "On the 16th, everything was
so quiet, because as we were coming there was a group of boys who said, 'It is
not safe for you to be walking in the streets, let us accompany you and show
you shortcuts to get to your homes. Where do you stay?' We gave them our
addresses and they started taking us to our homes using not the usual routes, for
our safety. "On the 17th, I couldn't stay
home, I said, 'No, man, I can't, because everybody else can stay, except the
health workers. Let me go to Baragwanath Hospital, if there is nothing
happening in the townships Baragwanath will be open.' "We had to leave early
because the taxi men were also scared for their lives. On the 18th, I still
went to Baragwanath. There were lots of young people coming in with injuries.
Shot wounds, pellet wounds. Those with pellet wounds would go home with the
pellets in their bodies if the doctors were too busy to see them. It was
difficult to see those students in their uniforms, still so young. "It remained tense for quite
a long time. I had to go to Coronation Hospital, which was the coloured area,
outside of Soweto, not far from what used to be Sophiatown. I had to get there
and so the Soweto incidents were far from me, though in Coronation we still got
a lot of children that were shot in Soweto. They came to Coronation because casualties
wasn't as busy as at Bara." Ten years later another wave of youth
protests gathered momentum in the townships, including Soweto. In the midst of
the tragic "liberation before education" strand of the anti-apartheid
movement, Emily's resolute commitment to the best possible education for her children
had frightening consequences. "Later, at the beginning of
1986, during a time of school boycotts in Soweto, I took my other daughter and
my late son to a boarding school. I didn't want children staying at home. A
friend also took her children to a boarding school, in the Free State. Mine
were close, in Roodepoort. One night some people knocked on the door and said, 'Mama,
we understand that you have taken your children to school. On such-and-such a
date, we must find them here.' "There was lots of open veld
around Zone 9 where I lived. On Sunday nights, I would take the children's
school clothes and hide them in the veld. Early on Monday mornings, I would
fetch the clothes, get a taxi, and take the children to school. I couldn't let
any of my neighbours see our activities. It was dangerous. The youth activists
came to me: 'Mama, even if nobody saw you, we know that you are taking your
children to boarding school.' "Fortunately, I had made
ginger beer so I asked them to sit down. We started talking. I said, 'I see
what you are doing is very good, but you must look at the consequences. Winnie
Mandela, what is she by profession?' "They said, 'She is a social
worker.' "'Okay, and Nelson Mandela?' "'He is an attorney.' "'Don't you think those
people will need somebody to run their offices when they come back? If no one
is educated, who is going to run those offices?' "They looked at me and said, 'What
you are saying is sensible.' "I said, 'We can't all be
illiterate, some must study while some are fighting. That is how I see it.' "They said, 'Yes, we need
somebody like you, do you mind if we come again and talk?' "I said I didn't. So they
became regular visitors. I eventually asked for a transfer to the East Rand and
moved there because it wasn't healthy anymore for any of us. My children were
not safe, I didn't feel safe myself. "Naledi herself was nearly a
victim at one stage, because I forced her to go to school and I forced her to
wear a uniform even though it was dangerous. And she was nearly burnt. It was
just the Lord's doing [that she wasn't], because the shops were so near, just
across the street." "They were holding her [about
thirty metres away from where the shops were]. They had petrol, but they didn't
have the matches and nobody thought of just going to the shop to get matches.
She was standing there, scared, you know. "Someone said, 'You know
what, we might be making a mistake. Did you ask her where she lives? Maybe she
doesn't know what is happening in the townships.' So they asked her and she
said, 'Sotepa.' This was an enclosed area for
those working for Oppenheimer. I don't know if they were working in the mines
or what, but they had beautiful houses and their area was enclosed. And Naledi
told them that she was staying there. "They said, 'We nearly murdered
Oppenheimer's child!' "Naledi didn't even tell me
what had happened. I heard it later from the taxi driver who drove her away. He
said, 'Mama, you have a brave girl!' He told me that they'd been ready to throw
petrol on her and she didn't even cry. "You know, sometimes when you
are faced with a thing it brings out the best in you. Look at how the Lord does
things. Her school bag was there. Nobody even pulled out a book to see her
address. "After that she couldn't wear
her uniform. I said, 'You will get your matric, but maybe now is not the right
time.'" Sometimes, Emily explained,
children going to school to write exams were beaten by young people wielding
sjamboks to prevent them from going to school. We discussed Sharon's exposure, as
a maths teacher in Mitchell's Plain, to the terrible legacy of apartheid
education, and how tragic it was that two generations of children (1976 and
1985-86) had experienced all that tension and violence and were unable to go to
school and how these people were now the parents of school-going children. "I had to do two, three jobs
to get enough money to keep my children at school. I had an agreement with the
manager at the clinic to leave early every day so that I could get to the group
of students I was teaching after school. I got home late every day. Naledi had
to grow up before her time. She had to cook and clean and look after the young ones
before I got home." Emily recalls a picture on a
postcard she was given in 1948 at her first Holy Communion. It was of two
children standing before a rickety wooden bridge with several broken slats.
Behind them is an angel with his wings around them. The picture has stayed with
her as a reminder that God sends angels when things are hard. As I wearily climbed the steps to my house, I wondered where
the angels were in 1948. In 1976? In 1986? Where is heavenly protection against
so much ongoing suffering, today? In the face of all she encountered, my
neighbour's seven decades of steadfast, rock-like humanity astonishes me. Ouma Emily and Naledi's
experiences estrange me from, among others, my grandmother and especially her "darling",
my grandfather. But my faith and commitment to inclusive humanisation means I
cannot give up on my blood family. I cannot stop trying to understand and
accept them more deeply. Despite the accompanying darkness; even though it
often feels impossible and overwhelming to stay on this Verwoerd track and continue
on the journey I've started with my new neighbours. * This extract was taken from Verwoerd: My Journey through Family Betrayals written by Wilhelm Verwoerd, published by Tafelberg Publishers.