Outgoing premier of the Western Cape and one of SA Twitter's foremost polemicists, Helen Zille, is at it again, causing a stir on the social media site for her most recent comments about "black privilege". Zille was replying to a viral video of an American poet ruminating the topic of "white privilege" on the social media platform, which has since drawn ire from media personalities and former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela. The video starts off with the speaker saying: "We learned your French, we learned your English, we learned your Spanish, we learned your Dutch, your Portuguese, your German, you learned our nothing and you called us stupid." White privilege?This outburst sounds more like ‘I hate whites’pic.twitter.com/4No7Iwru2S  Zille replied to the tweet: "Why is she saying this stuff in English?" Why is she saying this stuff in English?  That set off a chain of events with everyone, from PowerFM talkshow host Aldrin Sampear to Madonsela, responding to the former DA leader. Would you ask of a rape victim "why did she keep the baby?"Don't be that person. I know that you are always up for a debate but sometime you tweet the most hurtful and inconsiderate things. Mmusi speaks of White privilege are you gonna ask him why is he speaking English?  It was, however, her response to actor Hlomla Dandala that really turned up the heat. Dandala was responding to a Twitter user who posted: "Suits are associated with colonial influence no? How about all the other privileged colonial stuff we take for granted, the car, the suit, the cellphone, iPad, bank account, internet, mansion in the burbs, where would you like to draw the line?" Suits are associated with colonial influence no? How about all the other privileged colonial stuff we take for granted, the car, the suit, the cell phone, iPad, bank account, internet, mansion in the burbs, where would you like to draw the line?  Dandala said: "You clearly don't understand white privilege. We had plenty technology here that was eroded/annihilated by colonialism. You did us zero favours by colonising us." You clearly don’t understand white privilege. We had plenty technology here that was eroded/annihilated by colonialism. You did us zero favours by colonising us.  Zille responded: "Well, you clearly don't understand black privilege. It is being able to loot a country and steal hundreds of billions and get re-elected. If ppl want permanent poverty for the masses they are going about it the right way. #BlackPrivilege." It set off a chain of events. Well you clearly don't understand black privilege. It is being able to loot a country and steal hundreds of billions and get re-elected. If ppl want permanent poverty for the masses they are going about it the right way. #BlackPrivilege  Investigative journalist, Sam Sole, entered the fray saying: "Helen lost it quite some time ago." Helen lost it quite some time ago. The real problem with the DA is they don't have the courage of their conviction. No guts to take on Helen. No guts to take on Patricia. No guts to take on Julius & the dirty coalition deals in Jhb & Tshwane. All were/are out of line. Other users lobbed accusations of racism at Zille, which she denounced. What is racist about an obviously factual verifiable statement. Former spokesperson for the ANC in Parliament, Moloto Mothapo, added his piece.  Helen Zille is trolling us again, has created hashtag #BlackPrivilege. This country is special shem pic.twitter.com/joHVYLmQwR Others had suggestions for Zille. You are fueling fire in a country where your opinion correct or not will only irritate people. I suggest you step back from Twitter for a while. You are not doing the DA any favours.  It was Madonsela who took to Twitter to act as a voice of calm and reason, saying that equating white privilege to black privilege was "myopic". Dear @helenzille white privilege is universal and comes with the premium the world places on whiteness plus accumulated historical advantages. To equate it with black privilege is myopic. To brand blacks as looters and political pretenders is wrong. Please withdraw and apologize https://t.co/vTwbyn7aDI This isn't the first time the outgoing premier's views on Twitter have brought her into disrepute. In 2017, she infamously articulated a view that the legacy of colonialism was not wholly negative. The DA set up a disciplinary process for its former leader, which later fell away after she agreed to step down from party activities and apologise for the tweets. 