It’s been a year of sleepless nights for the parents of a missing Norwegian student who’ve kept hoping and wondering if today would be the day their daughter returned home. News of the disappearance of Marie Ostbo (then 21) spread like wildfire across international borders when she disappeared on Myoli Beach in Sedgefield on 18 April last year. She was part of an international student group touring South Africa. Her shoes, cellphone and hat were found on the beach. The Norwegian embassy immediately assisted with the search for Marie, but as the days and weeks went by no leads or answers came to light. Now a year later, Marie’s family are still in the dark about what exactly happened that night. “There’s nothing: no new leads, no old ones to follow up on and no sign of what could’ve happened to Marie,” Southern Cape police spokesperson captain Malcolm Pojie told YOU. “We’ve done everything in our power to try and find her, and we still are [doing our best]. “Back then the Norwegian police unit for serious crimes joined our investigative team. We teamed up with experts who searched the area with a fine-tooth comb – we used metal detectors and were on the lookout for shallow graves, but there’s nothing. There are no answers.” Pojie says the police have considered a number of theories around Marie’s disappearance. That she might have been kidnapped or that she possibly drowned in the ocean. “We had to consider all possibilities. Unfortunately not all bodies wash up on shore and the police have no evidence to support any of our theories. We don’t know anything,” Pojie said, adding that despite the fact that the search for Marie was called off in May last year, the investigation into her disappearance is ongoing. The police still request that anyone with information report it to Sedgefield SAPS. Helene, Marie’s older sister, previously said on social media that there are no words to describe what their family is going through. She recently posted a photo of Marie on Facebook asking people to continue to look for her.  Earlier this week the Pink Ladies, an organisation that helps with the search for missing individuals, again made a plea for Marie online. “Marie disappeared on 18 April 2018 on a beach in Sedgefield and there’s been no sign of her ever since. It’s been a year and her parents are left with broken hearts hoping for a break in the case so they can get closure. Our prayers and thoughts are with them.” Anyone with information can phone the Sedgefield police station on 044-302-6600.