The man who sent letters soliciting money to finance a plot to assassinate supposed beneficiaries of state capture was on Tuesday given a suspended sentence. Elvis Ramosebudi, 34, was found guilty in the Johannesburg Magistrate's Court of two counts of attempting incitement to commit conspiracy to murder. Ramosebudi faced two counts of incitement to commit murder. However, Magistrate Collin Matshitse convicted him of the alternative charges of attempting incitement to commit conspiracy to murder. On Tuesday, arguing in aggravation of sentencing, prosecutor Johan Badenhorst told the court that the crime was of a serious nature. "Motive is not important. He advertised that 'I am available... I am a sniper and availabe at your service'. He was advertising to people that he was available to commit crime on their behalf. He advertised his services to take out politicians," Badenhorst said. READ: Man who wanted to assassinate Zuma, Magashule found guilty Ramosebudi’s legal representative, advocate Motebang Ramaili, argued that his client had a clean record with no previous convictions. He said a just sentence would be a suspended one. Following arguments, Matshitse told Ramosebudi that, after "thinking seriously, the court will give you a second opportunity". Hit list He sentenced him to three years in prison, suspended for five years. The supposed beneficiaries of state capture included former president Jacob Zuma, four members of the Gupta family, three Cabinet ministers and the head of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). Ramosebudi allegedly sent two letters – to Anglo Platinum and businessman Ajay Gupta - asking for funding for the plot. In the letter he wrote to Ajay Gupta, he allegedly asked for money to assassinate people supporting "white monopoly capital". He mentioned former deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas, former public protector Thuli Madonsela, former ANC MP Vytjie Mentor and former GCIS CEO Themba Maseko. ANC secretary general Ace Magashule and former mineral resources minister Mosebenzi Zwane were also on the "hit list". Speaking to reporters shortly after sentencing, Ramosebudi said he was relieved that the case was over. "I am overwhelmed and, at the same time, relieved. It (the case) has taken its toll. I'm am going to sleep and not sleep with one eye open," he said.