A battered white Toyota Hilux hooted outside an apartment block in
downtown Johannesburg. The driver and his two passengers were in a hurry. The
driver hooted again. Eventually a couple emerged carrying blankets and two
suitcases. "We're coming, take it easy, Kasper," the human rights
lawyer Gabriel Shumba shouted. CIO agent Kasper cackled his aggressive laugh
behind the wheel. "Chairman, what's taking
you, you're going to make us miss the march!" He pronounced "march"
as "much", taking a meat cleaver to the word. Gabriel tossed his and
his wife's suitcases in the back of the Hilux. He clocked the licence plates on
the Toyota: Zimbabwean. Yesterday, at the hotel, the plates had been GP
(Gauteng Province) for Johannesburg. Kasper and Magic had switched them overnight
as was their practice whenever making a trip to Zimbabwe. Gabriel jumped in the back with
the agents Magic and Horse and tried to get comfortable among the clutter of
fuel cans, blankets, megaphones and food supplies, while his wife rode shotgun upfront.
Then Kasper hit the gas and they raced north, to the Zimbabwe border, six hours'
drive away. Kasper planned to drive through the night – he never had much need
for sleep – and be in Harare by dawn. Gabriel had not set foot in Zimbabwe
since fleeing in the boot of a car on March 24th, 2003, 14 years previously. He
was a fugitive from his home country and hunted by Mugabe's assassins in his
adopted one, but there was no way he was going to miss the event he believed
would finally topple the tyrant. He wanted to be free again, to not have to
look over his shoulder anymore, and that time was close at hand. Something had rankled Gabriel
during his 14 years in exile: the accusation from putative allies in the
opposition back home that those in the diaspora had it easy. "There were
always allegations that we had left others to fight and die. So when I made the
decision to go for the march it was partly an attempt to convince myself that I
wasn't a coward. I had always said I would rather be a living dog than a dead
lion, but now I said, 'Let me show them I can risk it'." The going to the border was good. They passed dozens of
buses carrying patriotic Zimbabweans home for the march, flags fluttering.
Gabriel, Tino and their ZEF colleagues had been up most of the previous night
sending word to their networks, helping to arrange transport, and here, in a
matter of hours, was the result. At 3pm, as was his habit, Kasper messaged
Ellis back in Johannesburg to update him on their progress. Ellis couldn't make
the trip. His passport had expired, but he was also banned from Zimbabwe.
During the 2013 election, while campaigning undercover for MDC candidates, a
military vehicle had pulled over his Land Rover Discovery in Harare. Clare was
in the car with him. The soldier in charge knocked on his window and calmly
delivered a message: "You need to leave this country now. And don't come
back. Understand?" Ellis got the message. He had left and never returned. Now,
stuck in Johannesburg, he called contacts to donate fuel, air tickets and the
like; he phoned MDC and NGO people he knew to mobilise their followers to
march, and at the last minute added two rusty megaphones he'd dug out of his
basement at home to the luggage on the back of the Hilux. "Take these,"
he told Kasper. "You'll be on the streets and you might need to have your
voices heard." Then he had hugged his assassin and wished him luck. On the road, at around 4pm,
Kasper heard from Mutsvangwa, who was back in Harare already, that the war
veterans press conference at the Rainbow Towers Hotel that afternoon had gone
well. Mutsvangwa had flown back to a different country from the one he'd
skipped 12 days previously, the day of ED's dismissal. Back then he had feared
the assassins were coming for him too, and he'd been terrified his flight might
even be turned back. But now, with Mugabe on the ropes, he swaggered from the
airport to the Rainbow Towers and announced preparations for the coup de grâce.
"The game is up for Mugabe, it's done, it's finished," he told the
massed ranks of local and international media gathered at the hotel. "The
generals have done a fantastic job. We want to restore our pride and [Saturday]
is the day… we can finish the job the army started." The Hilux arrived at the Beit
Bridge border on the Limpopo River close to 9pm. The queue to get in was long.
Not since Bruce Springsteen played Harare in 1988, at the height of apartheid,
had so many people made their way overnight from South Africa to Zimbabwe.
Getting out of South Africa was easy; getting into Zimbabwe, not so much.
Gabriel showed his passport and it went as he feared: his name was flagged and
the official would not allow him in. They didn't sound any alarm, which was a
relief, and everyone else could proceed, but not him. Kasper wasn't having it.
He wanted to assault the official, then thought better of it. "United we stand, divided we fall," he muttered.
Then he conferred with agents Horse and Magic. An hour later the Hilux
continued on its way across the border, while Gabriel and Horse turned back
into South Africa, immigration on that side bemused as to how a Zimbabwean on a
Zimbabwean passport had been denied entry into his own country. It was there
that Horse put the new means of crossing the border into action. Gabriel won't
say exactly how they smuggled him in; suffice to say that, having fled Zimbabwe
in the trunk of a car 14 years previously, he re-entered his country in equally
unconventional fashion in the early hours of Saturday morning, November 18th.
They reconnoitred with the Toyota Hilux at 3am, six hours later. Sufficiently
clear of the border, Kasper pulled the Hilux over on a stretch of straight road
and they all hopped out. There was no moon, but it was a clear starlit night and the
air had the musky wet smell of weed grass, mopani leaves and wood smoke.
Gabriel inhaled the smell of his rural childhood. Then he got down on his knees
by the side of the road, gathered some soil in his hands and licked it, a
custom, if one has been away for a long time from home, to let the ancestors
know you have returned. As he knelt there, the taste of Zimbabwe on his tongue,
tears started rolling down his face. He turned to look up at his wife and three
friends who were staring at him in the starlight. They were crying too. * This is an extract from Two weeks In November by Douglas Rogers, published by Jonathan Ball Publishers.