When a young woman from Gordon’s Bay in the Western Cape left
for work yesterday morning, she had no idea that an act of kindness would soon be
coming her way. Monet van Deventer, an account manager, was on her way to
Cape Town from her home on Thursday 30 May when she realised her car was running low on petrol. The 21-year-old then decided
to stop at the Shell Ultra City False Bay garage near Macassar on the N2
to top up her tank. Upon arrival she told petrol attendant Nkosikho Mbele (28),
also known as Sam, to hold off throwing fuel in her vehicle because she had a
feeling that she might not have any cash on her. “I searched my handbag while Nkosikho washed my car’s
windows” Monet told YOU. “After about three-to-five minutes of searching, I realised
I forgot my card in one of my jackets at home. I didn’t have any way of paying
and I told Nkosikho he doesn’t have to throw petrol into my tank because I
couldn’t pay for it.” But what happened next left Monet pleasantly surprised. “Then he [Nkosikho] said ‘no man, you can’t run out of
petrol on the N2. I’ll give you R100 then you can just bring back my R100
whenever you’re here again’. “I was so shocked and
couldn’t say anything. He took out his own card and paid for my petrol. It was
an amazing gesture. It really made my day,” Monet says. Nkosikho, who’s from Khayelitsha revealed that he gave the
young woman the money for safety reasons. “I decided to help her out because it was dark and early in
the morning. Nkosikho told YOU, adding he didn’t want her to get stuck along
the road. “I knew it was the right thing to do.” Monet then took to Facebook to share her moving experience
with her friends and family. The post has since gone viral with more than
38 000 people sharing her touching story. “Wow, I feel so blessed,” Nkosikho said about the Facebook post.
“I feel as if God is watching me.”  Monet and her family are starting a crowdfunding page to
help support Nkosikho. “I got so many comments and messages from people who are
willing to donate money so I’m going to collect the donations and take it to
him.”