Grassy Park Police Station will have a memorial service for the late Constable Anele Bidi today, (21 May) at Calvanist Protestant Church at 11:00. The 34-year-old officer was killed during a hit and run at Weltevreden Road, between Samora Machel and Colorado Park on Saturday 11 May at 23.45 He was off duty at the time and was walking to the filling station to fix his punctured tyre. “The same vehicle knocked a second person who also died on the scene few metres down the road. The suspect did not stop,” says Grassy Park police spokesperson Captain Wynita Kleinsmith. She says a 38-year-old suspect was arrested the next day. He appeared at the Philippi Magistrates Court on Tuesday last week on two charges of culpable homicide. His is appearing again today for bail application. Kleinsmith describes Bidi as a very quiet, diligent, friendly, hardworking and compassionate worker. “We saw Constable Bidi not just as a colleague, but as a brother, friend and we are saddened and hurt by the loss. “He made a huge impact as a member of crime prevention and on his fellow colleagues. We will miss him and in our hearts, he lives on,” says Kleinsmith. The station conveys sincere condolences to his family and friends. Grassy Park Police Station will have a memorial service for the late Constable Anele Bidi today, (21 May) at Calvanist Protestant Church at 11:00. The 34-year-old officer was killed during a hit and run at Weltevreden Road, between Samora Machel and Colorado Park on Saturday 11 May at 23:45 He was off duty at the time and was walking to the filling station to fix his punctured tyre.“The same vehicle knocked a second person who also died on the scene few metres down the road. The suspect did not stop,” says Grassy Park police spokesperson Captain Wynita Kleinsmith. She says a 38-year-old suspect was arrested the next day. He appeared at the Philippi Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday last week on two charges of culpable homicide. His is appearing again today for bail application. Kleinsmith describes Bidi as a very quiet, diligent, friendly, hardworking and compassionate worker. “He made a huge impact as a member of crime prevention and on his fellow colleagues. We will miss him and in our hearts, he lives on,” says Kleinsmith. Grassy Park Police Station will have a memorial service for the late Constable Anele Bidi today, (21 May) at Calvanist Protestant Church at 11:00. The 34-year-old officer was killed during a hit and run at Weltevreden Road, between Samora Machel and Colorado Park on Saturday 11 May at 23:45 He was off duty at the time and was walking to the filling station to fix his punctured tyre. “The same vehicle knocked a second person who also died on the scene few metres down the road. The suspect did not stop,” says Grassy Park police spokesperson Captain Wynita Kleinsmith. She says a 38-year-old suspect was arrested the next day. He appeared at the Philippi Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday last week on two charges of culpable homicide. His is appearing again today for bail application. Kleinsmith describes Bidi as a very quiet, diligent, friendly, hardworking and compassionate worker.