Wet weather conditions are expected in places in the north-east as well as the northern interior on Friday, where it will be cool to warm.   It will be hot over the north-western parts of the country, according to the South African Weather Service. Warnings Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over the extreme north-eastern parts of the Northern Cape and north-western parts of the North West. The weather in your region Gauteng will be partly cloudy and warm with isolated afternoon thunderstorms. The expected UVB sunburn index will be extreme. It will be cloudy with morning fog and drizzle in Mpumalanga. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and cool. Limpopo will be cloudy in the morning with drizzle along the escarpment, and isolated showers and thundershowers in the north-east. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and cool. It will be fine and warm but hot in the extreme western parts of the North West. It will be cloudy in the east. It will become partly cloudy with afternoon light isolated showers and thundershowers - except in the north-east. It will be cloudy with morning fog patches in the extreme eastern parts of the Free State. Otherwise, it will be fine and warm. It will become partly cloudy with light isolated showers and thundershowers expected in the north. The Northern Cape will be fine and warm but hot in the north-west and extreme north. It will become partly cloudy in the north-east with isolated afternoon thundershowers. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh but strong at times. It will be fine and warm but hot in the north-western parts of the Western Cape. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh, becoming strong by the afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index will be high. The Eastern Cape is expected to be fine and warm but partly cloudy and cool along the coast. It will be cloudy with fog over the interior. The wind along the coast will be varied. It will be cloudy with morning fog over the interior of KwaZulu-Natal. Isolated showers are expected in the north at first. It will become partly cloudy toward afternoon. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. The expected UVB sunburn index will be moderate.   - Compiled by Naseema Barday Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days