A heat wave with persistently high temperatures is expected over the eastern parts of North West, Free State, Limpopo and Gauteng provinces until Monday. The hot and humid weather will result in extremely uncomfortable conditions over the Lowveld of Mpumalanga and over Limpopo, according to the South African Weather Service. Warnings Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over the North West and Free State, the eastern interior of the Northern Cape, northern and central interior of the Eastern Cape, and the Little and Central Karoo of the Western Cape extending to the Swellendam municipality. Extremely hot conditions are expected over the Limpopo Valley and the Limpopo Lowveld, also persisting until Monday. The weather in your region Gauteng can expect a fine day, becoming partly cloudy and very hot in the afternoon. Possible isolated showers and thundershowers in the north. The expected UVB sunburn index: Very High. Mpumalanga will be very hot to extremely hot in the Lowveld, otherwise partly cloudy and warm to hot with isolated showers and thundershowers, clearing from the west later. It will be partly cloudy and very hot to extremely hot in Limpopo, with isolated showers and thundershowers in the west and south. The North West will be fine, windy and hot to very hot, but partly cloudy over the central and eastern parts with isolated thundershowers in the extreme east. Fine, windy and hot day, becoming partly cloudy the east with isolated thundershowers in the extreme north-east in the Free State. The Northern Cape can expect early morning fog along the north-western coast at first, otherwise fine and hot, but partly cloudy and cold to cool along the coast, with late morning drizzle. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh north-westerly, becoming south-westerly in the evening. Ot will be fine and cool to warm over the eastern parts of the Western Cape, but cloudy with morning drizzle and isolated light rain and showers over the southwestern parts in the late morning, spreading to the central interior and along the south coast by the afternoon. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh north-westerly to westerly, but strong between Cape Point and Cape Agulhas, becoming moderate to fresh south-westerly south of Cape Columbine in the afternoon, before spreading along the south coast by the evening. The Western part of the Eastern Cape will experience cloudy conditions in the south at first in the morning, otherwise fine and warm to hot, with strong winds in places from midday. The eastern parts will be cloudy in places south of the escarpment at first in the morning, otherwise fine and warm to hot with strong winds in places over the interior. KwaZulu-Natal will be partly cloudy in places at first and in the afternoon, otherwise fine and hot to very hot, but warm over the south-east. Isolated afternoon and evening showers and thundershowers are expected in the extreme north. The expected UVB sunburn index: Very High  - Compiled by Kelly Anderson Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days