Dakar – The former mayor of Dakar, Khalifa Sall,
was hailed by jubilant supporters as he crossed the Senegalese capital in a
convoy during the night, following his release from prison. President Macky Sall pardoned his former political
rival, who had been sentenced for fraudulent use of public funds, the
presidency announced on Sunday. The move surprised many Senegalese, although it
comes amid a de-escalation of political tensions orchestrated by Muslim
leaders. Khalifa Sall, no relation to the president, has
been in jail since March 2017 and was sentenced to five years in prison in
August 2018. He was therefore barred from taking part in the
presidential election in February. As the news of the pardon spread, hundreds of his
supporters gathered late on Sunday outside the Rebeuss prison in Dakar, from
where he emerged a few hours later. They then accompanied his convoy across several
neighbourhoods of the capital, including Grand Yoff, the electoral stronghold
of the 63-year-old socialist, AFP journalists said. Senegalese President Macky Sall sworn in for second term Senegalese President Macky Sall is sworn in for a second term at a ceremony in Diamniadio. His successful re-election campaign was based on his "Emerging Senegal" infrastructure project to spur economic growth. Police fired tear gas to disperse the crowd,
according to witnesses and local media. The former mayor at times emerged from his car,
raising his arms in a sign of victory. After a brief stop in front of the new Grand Mosque
in Dakar, inaugurated on Friday, the convoy arrived in the middle of the night
in the district of Parcelles Assainies, where his mother lives, according to Senegalese
media. Khalifa Sall, 63, served as Dakar mayor from 2009
till 2018 when the president removed him from office. A presidential decree made public on Sunday said
Macky Sall has "totally annulled his sentences". Two of his
co-accused were also pardoned. 'Immense joy' "I thank the head of state (Macky Sall) who
had promised me this release," said Sowam Wardini, who took over as Dakar
mayor from Khalifa Sall. "Khalifa Sall is returning to his family
today". Lawmaker Ousmane Sonko, who came third in the
presidential election, expressed his "immense joy". "I salute his dignity and wish him a full
recovery of his civil rights," he said. Khalifa Sall was elected to parliament in 2017, but
never got the chance to take his seat. A popular politician, he has always believed that
the case brought against him was a political move to prevent him from standing
in this year's presidential election against Macky Sall, who has been in power
since 2012. That claim is denied by officials. Even though he is pardoned, Khalifa Sall's
conviction is not erased, which in principle does not allow him to recover his
civil rights, including the right to stand for election. Several religious leaders have recently called for
more discussion and less conflict in the country's political life. Former minister Karim Wade, son of Macky Sall's
predecessor as president Abdoulaye Wade, was also prevented from standing for
the presidency because of a fraud case. He was jailed for six years in 2015, after having
been detained for two years, and handed a fine of more than $230m. After a three-year stint in prison, he was granted
a presidential pardon in June 2016. However, the constitutional court rejected his
presidential election candidacy due to that conviction. 