*UPDATE: Motorists leaving the Cape Town CBD on Friday have been advised to use the N2 outbound at Nelson Mandela Boulevard to avoid a protest on Sir Lowry Road in the Zonnebloem area, just outside the CBD. The City of Cape Town tweeted on Friday afternoon that Sir Lowry Road was closed between Russell Street and Tennant Street, due to stone throwing. All roads have been reopened in and around the station deck however, according to the city's spokesperson Maxine Bezuidenhout. Traffic was still slow moving out of the CBD along all major routes, she said. Earlier on Friday, minibus taxis again blocked roads in the Cape Town CBD, slowing down traffic and causing "heavy delays" out of the city, the City of Cape Town's traffic services said. Bezuidenhout had said traffic authorities and police were engaging with the drivers to get them to move. Christiaan Barnard Street had been closed in both directions, between Hertzog Boulevard and Tennant Street, as taxis blocked the road. Traffic along the N2 outbound, at the M5, was also slowed down. Nelson Mandela Boulevard in and outbound was blocked at Searle Street. The road has since been reopened, Bezuidenhout said. On the N2 outbound at Raapenberg Road, tow trucks removed taxis, she said. At 14:45, the road was reopened. Tyres were also set alight in the left lane of the N2 outbound at Bhunga Avenue.  The N2 on Friday afternoon. (Supplied: Maxine Bezuidenhout) She was unable to say if the unrest was related to Tuesday's action in which taxi drivers protested over warrants during afternoon traffic, blocking roads.   Commuters had been threatened and violently forced out of minibuses, News24 reported. The action was condemned by mayoral committee member for safety and security, JP Smith, who slammed the "violent reaction to the rule of law", in which a police officer was assaulted and robbed of his firearm. The unrest was believed to have been related to the issuing of warrants and impounding of illegal taxis during an operation on Tuesday, the fact that they were fined in the first place, and the fine amount, Smith said at the time. Fine amounts, he pointed out, were set by the provincial government.     