A memorial
plaque for Dylan Neethling, the boy whose dad shot him before turning the gun
on himself, was put up this week at Panorama Primary in Cape Town where Dylan
was a pupil. Dylan’s
mom, Nandia, will visit the school to see the plaque. “I hope it
brings some measure of comfort,” Nandia tells YOU. “His friends can lay flowers
there and I can visit the plaque. There’s a bench nearby. The kids don’t have
to be alone when they want to go there.” Johann
Neethling, Dylan’s father, shot his sleeping son in the early hours of 8
September. Johann then reported a shooting to the police before lying down next
to Dylan and shooting himself. Johann and
Nandia had been estranged and Dylan was visiting his dad. Now Nandia
finds herself in a legal battle with Johann’s daughter from a previous
marriage, Yulandi Aktash. It’s come to light that Johann didn’t leave Nandia or
Dylan anything in his will. Apparently
Yulandi, who’s the executor of the estate, is demanding that Nandia provide
proof of each and every gift Johann gave her while they were married. “Who keeps
a record of everything their husband gives them while they’re married? They
also don’t want to give me my child’s stuff. I mean, it’s things for a child –
a go-cart and a quad bike.” Yulandi’s
lawyer, Candy-Lee de Sousa, has told YOU that her client doesn’t wish to
comment. Nandia is also being denied access to the family home in Panorama
where Nandia lived for the eight years she was married to Johann. “Some of my
personal items are still there, as well as the dishwasher he gave me for our
first anniversary and a microwave oven,” says Nandia adding that Yulandi is
also demanding she return the car she’s been driving. Nandia says
Johann gave her the car but it’s still registered in his name. “First, he took
my child. Now he’s leaving me with nothing.” Yulandi got
married in South Africa in January 2018 but lives in Dubai. “I just want
my child’s things,” Nandia says. In an
earlier interview she told YOU that no one knows exactly what happened the
night of the shooting. “What goes through someone’s mind who does such a thing?
Dylan had his whole life ahead of him.”