She was
only 8km away from where her husband was lying next to the road at the R44
turnoff after he’d been knocked off his bicycle. But that day she realised just
how far 8km could be when you’re worried about an injured loved one. Liebenette Burger (45), from Somerset West near
Cape Town, was at a mall when a woman, Sonja Morkel, called her. Sonja had come
across Liebenette’s husband, Leon (49), by the side of the road where he’d been
knocked off his bicycle. The motorist who’d hit Leon had simply sped
off. “We’re
incredibly grateful to Leslie and Sonja Morkel who came across Leon. We don’t
know them from Adam but Sonja spotted Leon lying in a ditch. The couple
immediately made a U-turn at Stellenbosch Square’s robot to go back and help
Leon,” Liebenette says. “I was
grocery shopping. I saw Leon was calling me from his cellphone and when I
answered and heard a woman’s voice, I immediately knew something was wrong. “I didn’t immediately
know what Leon’s condition was but Sonja said I needed to come immediately.
Leslie called me again and said Leon was badly hurt. I asked him if Leon’s life
was in danger and he said he didn’t think so,” Liebenette recalls. But she got
a few more worrying calls from Leon. After Leslie and Sonja told her of the
accident, Leon called her seven more times, saying the exact same thing each
time: that he’d been run over. “At first I
didn’t understand why he kept calling and telling me to come, that he’d been
knocked over. Each time I saw his name on my phone’s screen, I got the horrible
feeling that he realised he was dying and just wanted to hear my voice one last
time.” She could
follow Leon’s cycling route and location on her cellphone and saw that he was
about 8km from the R44 turnoff. “I sped
there at 180km/h with my hazard lights on. I remember thinking at one point
that I needed to get there safely and not have an accident. I couldn’t believe
8km was that far away.” Leon didn’t
have any broken bones but because of the impact of the vehicle that hit him, he
had serious internal injuries. He couldn’t move when she got there, Liebenette
says. “He had to
use his arm to lift his head and his right leg was badly swollen,” she says. He also had
short-term memory loss and still can’t remember anything about the accident
that happened on 29 September. That’s why he kept calling Liebenette over and
over and repeating himself – he’d simply forgotten that he’d already called her. “He also
doesn’t have any memory of what happened just before the incident.” Leon’s
doing “a bit better” now, she says. “But I have to keep reminding myself the
doctor said his recovery could take between four and six weeks.” Liebenette
worries about her husband’s memory loss. “There are moments when I wonder if
his memory has completely recovered because sometimes he’ll forget something we
spoke about. But I believe he’ll recover completely.” She says
her husband is making good progress. He’d been to a physiotherapist and even
recently rode his bicycle out to the spot where the accident happened. Police
interviewed Leon in hospital for information on the motorist but because he had
amnesia, they said they’d contact him in a month’s time. Liebenette
says there was a side mirror and glass from the vehicle at the scene. Mihlali
Majikela from the SAPD confirms an investigation is under way. “No arrests have
been made.”