A
crisis is brewing in Cape Town's CBD after more than 1 000 people made camp in
an arcade, demanding that the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) evacuate
them from South Africa due to safety concerns.   Speaking on behalf of a group
calling itself Women and Children at Concern, Pole wa Pole said the people
camping in the CBD were refugees and asylum seekers who no longer felt safe in
South Africa due to prejudice and violence. "They are demanding to be
taken to a safer place because South Africa is not safe for these people
anymore," Wa Pole told News24. The occupation in the Waldorf
Arcade's corridor between St George's and Burg streets began on October 8 and
has spread onto these streets as well. Women and children sat listlessly
on mattresses, while people queued outside to hand over copies of their asylum
papers to a group of men and women collecting them.   A banner erected at the entrance to the arcade. (Jenni Evans, News24)   The
intention is to hand them over to the UNHCR so that urgent travel arrangements
can be made to get out of South Africa. They do
not want to go back to their countries of origin, but have decided they could
no longer live in fear and put up with the discrimination they faced daily. "In
South Africa, there are two birth certificates," Wa Pole explained.
"A yellow one for a South African, and a white one for refugees.
Immediately refugees are different." ALSO
READ: Foreign refugees
are now very, very close to being practically able to claim UIF in South Africa He said when
people applied for jobs they were asked for their "green ID book" -
the South African identity document which is being phased out in favour of
cards. Their
asylum papers - which stipulate that they have the right to work - seem to
carry no weight with prospective employers. Wa Pole said many
people have lived in South Africa for 20 years, but were still subjected to
being "othered". He added
people at the arcade lived in fear of being harmed simply because they were not
South African. "I
can guarantee you that by tonight I will receive a phone call saying that
another foreigner has been killed." 'These
people are afraid' Photographs
of people who had been injured or killed were pasted on pillars at the arcade
near banners which read "South Africa you killing refugees" and
"The UNHCR Refugee Convention of 1951 Geneva must be applied to SA
refugees, our rights are not negotiable, Article 33". President
Cyril Ramaphosa has been at pains to stress that South Africans are not xenophobic and sent envoys to
countries whose citizens were affected by the violence. Attacks
on foreign nationals were also raised at the World Economic Forum Africa
meeting in Cape Town last month. Finance Minister Tito Mboweni stood in for
Ramaphosa when he stepped away to meet people protesting against gender-based
violence. Mboweni
said: "As an African, I should settle wherever I want to settle in
Africa." But these
sentiments held no sway with the group camping on the popular lanes. "Some
of us are business people. When our businesses are burned or looted, we receive
no compensation. People say we pay no tax, so we must not complain. We pay tax
for everything. I even paid tax on this pen I am holding," said Wa
Pole. Private
security guards, who work at the nearby buildings, stood at a distance as the
crowd on either side of the Waldorf Arcade swelled. Wa Pole
said people from Burundi, Somalia and Bangladesh were among those demanding to
be taken out of South Africa. "These
people are afraid. They fled their home countries due to well-founded fears of
persecution attached to their ethnicity, social, or political affiliations.
They found the same persecution here." 'Homes
and businesses have been looted' He said nobody
was helping them, and they were told they do not "belong here". Wa Pole
added they were waiting to hear from the UNHCR about their plight. In a
statement released by the UNHCR on Wednesday, the agency said it was aware of
the concerns raised by refugees and asylum seekers across South Africa. "We
are working with authorities and partners to address the issues and improve the
situation of all refugees and asylum seekers in South Africa." It added
that false messages were being circulated in some communities about
resettlement and evacuation. To
provide clarity on the matter, the UNHCR said it provided the
following: The
UNHRC's senior communications officer, Hélène Caux, reiterated to News24 that
resettlement was only a solution for a small number of people, along precise
criteria which was defined by resettlement countries themselves. She said
UNHCR staff had been interacting "on a daily basis" with the refugees
and asylum seekers outside its offices. "They
[asylum seekers and refugees] also have other grievances, especially regarding
access to documentation and the renewal of documentation. The UNHCR is
reinforcing its collaboration with the government of South Africa to find
suitable solutions as soon as possible," Caux added. "Please
note that the groups of refugees and asylum seekers in front of our offices do
not represent all refugees in South Africa. In fact, several other refugee
associations are not part of these sit-ins," she said. Last
month, there was widespread acts of public violence in Gauteng which left 12 people dead - two of whom were
foreign nationals. "Our
staff are receiving a significant increase in calls to our telephone hotlines
in recent weeks, with people reporting that their homes and businesses have
been looted, buildings and property have been set on fire, increased gang
activity on the streets and rising incidents of sexual and gender-based
violence," UNHCR spokesperson Charlie Yaxley said in briefing notes from Geneva
at the time. Yaxley added
refugees were afraid and some did not go to work, thereby losing their
income. During
the Katlehong violence, 800 people - mostly from Mozambique, Malawi and
Zimbabwe - sought refuge in community halls. READ
MORE: Xenophobia:
Agony, grief and fear stalks shelter set up for foreign nationals in Katlehong "Of those,
73 Malawians, 138 Mozambicans, 314 Nigerians and 72 Zimbabweans decided to
return already," Yaxley said in September. A private
airline also assisted Nigerian nationals who
wanted to leave South Africa.  