The man accused of raping a six year-old girl in Mamelodi will remain in custody as he abandoned his bid for bail, but his family, however, will have to move, after the community forced their landlord to evict them. The 26-year-old man appeared briefly in the Mamelodi Magistrate's Court on Thursday, where he informed the court that he would be making use of legal-aid services and that he would not be applying for bail. The court also heard that the accused, who cannot be named until he had plead to a charge of rape, is a Zimbabwean national and in the country illegally. READ: 6-year-old undergoes surgery after alleged rape by neighbour News24 has seen the charge sheet, which alleges that the accused raped the victim on October 5 in Mamelodi East. The court gallery packed with residents and branch members from different political parties jeered at the accused and called him a dog as he was taken back to the holding cells. The gallery had also cheered after hearing that he would not be applying for bail. The matter was postponed to November 28 for further investigations. Following the court appearance a small group of people went to the home that the accused is said to be renting with his mother, girlfriend and their three-month-old child. The irate group sang struggle songs outside the house and demanded that the family of the accused leave the area immediately. After a prolonged argument with the landlord, the group made their way to the flat and removed the belongings of the family, effectively evicting them.  The belongings of a man, accused of raping a 6 year-old girl in Mamelodi East. (Alex Mitchley, News24)    Surgery needed after rape   According to Themba Masango from lobby group Not In My Name, the victim, who was hospitalised with extensive damage to her genital area, started walking again on Wednesday. She went for surgery on Monday. The victim was allegedly raped on Saturday, by the accused who is her neighbour. Police spokesperson Captain Johannes Maheso confirmed that a case of rape had been opened and that the police had arrested a 26-year-old suspect shortly after the alleged incident.  ANC Women's League members protesting outside of the Mamelodi Magistrate's Court where a 26-year-old man accused of raping a 6-year-old girl, appeared (Alex Mitchley, News24) 