A heatwave is expected to persist over the eastern parts of North West, Free State, Limpopo and Gauteng until Monday. Severe thunderstorms can also be expected in places over Gauteng and Mpumalanga (except for the Lowveld), as well as in parts of KwaZulu-Natal, according to the South African Weather Service. Warnings Extremely high fire danger conditions are expected over the western and central parts of the North West and Free State, as well as the extreme eastern Northern Cape and the northern parts of the Eastern Cape. Watches Severe thunderstorms are expected in places over Gauteng and Mpumalanga, except for the Lowveld, as well as north-western KwaZulu-Natal. Special Weather Advisories A heatwave with persistently high temperatures is expected over the eastern parts of North West, Free State, Limpopo and Gauteng, persisting until Monday. The hot and humid weather is likely to result in extremely uncomfortable conditions over the Lowveld of Mpumalanga and over Limpopo until Monday. Extremely hot conditions are expected over the Limpopo Valley and the Limpopo Lowveld, also persisting until Monday. The weather in your region It will be partly cloudy and hot with isolated showers and thundershowers in Gauteng. The expected UVB sunburn index is extreme. Mpumalanga will be partly cloudy and warm, but hot with isolated showers and thundershowers over the Lowveld, and scattered showers and thundershowers over the Highveld. Limpopo is expected to be partly cloudy and hot to very hot, with isolated showers and thundershowers. Conditions remain the same but showers and thundershowers will be scattered in the southern central parts. The North West will be fine and hot to very hot but partly cloudy in the east with isolated thundershowers. A fine and warm to hot day, with isolated thundershowers in the extreme east can be expected in the Free State. It will be fine and warm in the eastern parts of the Northern Cape. It will be cloudy in the morning with light rain. Otherwise, it will be partly cloudy and cool to warm but fine in the east. It will be hot in the northeast of the province. The wind along the coast will be moderate. It will be cloudy with morning isolated showers and rain over the central interior and eastern parts of the south coast of the Western Cape becoming partly cloudy and cool to warm in the afternoon. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh but strong at times between Cape Point and Cape Agulhas, becoming light to moderate along the south coast in the afternoon. The expected UVB sunburn index in the province is high. It will be partly and warm, but cloudy and cool with light rain along the coast on Saturday morning in the western half of the Eastern Cape. The wind along the coast will be moderate to fresh. In the eastern half of the Eastern Cape, it will be partly cloudy and warm, becoming cloudy with isolated showers and rain south of the escarpment in the afternoon. The wind along the coast will be moderate, becoming fresh in the afternoon. KwaZulu-Natal will be partly cloudy and warm, but hot in places in the north. Isolated showers and thundershowers have been predicted. The wind along the coast will be gentle north of Richards Bay in the morning, otherwise moderate. The expected UVB sunburn index is high.  - Compiled by Ethan van Diemen Click here to see the specific forecast for your city over the next few days