It’s been less than a month since JC Roos (26), from
Rustenburg in North West, was hit in the head by a concrete brick thrown
through his bakkie’s windscreen, and he’s now been discharged from hospital. Thus far, her husband’s recovery has been nothing
short of a miracle, Claudia Roos (24) told YOU this week. Since he woke from his coma last Tuesday in the
high-care unit of Netcare Milpark hospital in Johannesburg, he’s made a rapid
recovery. By last Sunday, he could get out of bed and walk to the hospital
coffee shop with his wife where they met with friends. He was discharged this past
Wednesday (16 October). “Ever since JC opened his eyes that day and woke up,
God has been so good to us. I’m surprised by his remarkable progress every day.
The same day [he woke up], the ventilator was removed. And then he started
walking again . . . Ever since that day, he’s been wanting to go home, go back
to work, see his friends,” Claudia says. Claudia and their daughter, Alliana (14 months), had
been travelling with JC when an unidentified man threw a concrete block onto
their vehicle from a bridge. It happened on 20 September while the family were
travelling on the R566 near Rustenburg. The man then tried to rob them. Claudia and Alliana weren’t injured but JC’s face was
badly damaged. His jaw was broken and nearly all his teeth were knocked out.
He’s since had three surgeries to repair his jaw and cheekbones. The family had been on their way to visit Claudia’s
mother in the Free State. “This type of thing really wakes you up. It makes you
realise you need to live each day as if it’s your last. I know it’s a cliché,
but that’s how I’m living my life now. “The past month’s events have just been overwhelming.
My brother took a video of the helicopter taking JC to hospital and I’m
watching it over and over. To think how seriously JC was injured and that our
daughter and I walked away from that wreck unharmed.” Claudia has reached out on Facebook to thank everyone
for their support. She’s especially grateful to her brother, Henry Vorster
(34), who drove to the scene in the middle of the night from Krugersdorp to
help them.  JC will be staying with Henry and his family for now
to be near the hospital for his follow-up check-ups. He’ll be going home to
Rustenburg on Friday. “I know our little girl is going to be ecstatic to
have her daddy back home. I know that little face is going to be beaming,”
Claudia says. About the attacker who still hasn’t been identified,
she just wonders how anyone could have so much hate in their hearts. “But I’m still full of joy. I still have faith. During
the week, I spoke to someone who’s not faithful who asked me why all these
things are happening in our country? But I think God’s telling us to have faith
– He won’t come until everyone believes.”