The DA has prioritised a probe into allegations around Mmusi Maimane's car and house after he called for it, according to a report on Wednesday. Acting federal chair Thomas Walters told Business Day that the party's internal finance committee, tasked with the probe, would conduct a fact check regarding Maimane's resources and go to the federal executive if there was anything to report. READ | 'The smear campaign continues' - Maimane responds to Steinhoff car hire report Walters added that he personally felt these were anonymous leaks aimed at painting Maimane in a certain light but that looking at the facts was the best way to handle the matter. WATCH | 'Where is he?' Maimane calls on Ramaphosa to speak out Democratic Alliance Leader Mmusi Maimane called on President Cyril Ramaphosa to come out of hiding on Tuesday. His comments follow violent protests and looting in Gauteng and the deaths of UCT student Uyinene Mrwetyana and Leighandre Jegels. Watch. The committee was reportedly looking into the rental agreement for his Claremont home and reports that he drove around in a car that was a gift from former Steinhoff boss Markus Jooste. On Sunday, Rapport revealed that Maimane used the white Toyota Fortuner from Jooste for months, after indicating that it would be returned. Demand for proof He had made it available for Maimane to use during the 2016 local government elections. The Sunday Times reported that a senior Member of Parliament in the party, Mike Waters, had quizzed Maimane, demanding to see proof that he was indeed paying his own rent at his Cape Town home.This followed a City Press report that Maimane had declared a R4m Claremont home in the parliamentary assets registry as his own, even though the house did not belong to him. Maimane has since spoken out, claiming that there is a "smear campaign" against him. In a series of tweets on Sunday morning, Maimane first addressed News24 editor-in-chief Adriaan Basson, saying the claim that he refused to hand back the car even after the Steinhoff scandal broke was a lie. He tweeted: "The complete lies that I refused to hand the car back once the Steinhoff scandal broke. I campaigned in Joburg and we wrote a letter sending the car back. I have since used my personal vehicle for work purposes." In a separate tweet, Maimane said "the smear campaign continues". He tweeted about "gutless individuals" who are spreading lies "about me and my family"."I have always sought to build a South Africa for all. I remain committed to that vision, regardless of how uncomfortable it may make others feel." News24 reported that his leadership of the organisation was expected to be under the spotlight when the party gathered for a crucial federal council meeting on October 18. It appears provincial leaders have thrown their support behind him. - Compiled by Jenna Etheridge