 Mother-of-two Sibongile Fredericks has opened a
case of grievous bodily harm against her mother. The 29-year-old claims her mom poured a pot of
hot water on her legs and private parts. Sibongile is bedridden at home in Alexandra and
recovering from second-degree burns on both her legs and her private parts. Sibongile says she and her mother, Ntombizodwa
Mlalandle (62), stopped seeing eye to eye when her father passed away in 2008. “When my
father died, she turned into this evil woman,” Sibongile tells DRUM. “And I often doubted whether she was my
biological mother.” Sibongile says Ntombizodwa would often deprive
her and her younger sister of food and she kicked her out of the house when she
became pregnant with her first child in 2010. “My baby daddy hadn’t paid for my lobola and
hadn’t paid damages for the kids, but she was happy to let me go, as long as I
wasn’t her responsibility,” Sibongile says. “She refused to buy me and my
sister toiletries when I was on my period, she would insist that we ask our
boyfriends for money. As a result, we started dating older men for money,” she
says. Things became worse when Sibongile found out
that she had a calling. “My calling made things worse for me,” she
says. “My ancestors needed me to move back home after
coming back from ukuthwasa (initiation) because I could not consult
people in unfamiliar territory to them,” she says. But she says her mother made life a nightmare
for her. “She would swear, tell us to go find men who will take care of us
because we are a burden. But I can’t find work because my calling requires that
I become a full-time sangoma. I tried to get a job, but my calling needed me
present and working as a sangoma full-time,” she says. Sibongile says it was around 6am on a Saturday
morning when she was burnt while was hanging up the laundry. She felt a burn on
her legs and private parts. “I felt a painful burn on my legs and then saw that woman run to the gate. When
I realised she had burnt me I was in shock. I slipped and fell on top of the
hot water, making the burn worse,” Sibongile claims. “I know she hated me, but I didn’t realise how much she hated me. And this came
from nowhere. We were not fighting; in fact we don’t speak. I only go to the
house when I have consultations with clients and I leave, or I go to do my
laundry and leave,” she says.Ntombizodwa denies dousing her daughter with piping-hot water. “She is talking nonsense. She burnt herself,” she tells DRUM.“The pot fell on her while she was swearing and calling me all sorts of names.“Anyway, why would I have a problem with her being a sangoma? She is an adult
with two children and she can do as she pleases. But not under my roof,” she
adds. Ntombizodwa says that on the morning of the
incident, Sibongile had come home upset and started cursing her for being a
“bad mom”, she says. “She called me all sorts of names, she punched me in the face and fought with
me. During the scuffle, the pot of water fell on her legs,” she claims.“I can’t pour water on my own child.” Ntombizodwa says she then ran to the gate to flee from her angry daughter when
Sibongile thought it was her who had poured the water on her legs.“But this thing is deeper than what it sounds. Sibongile hates me and she
insists that I am not her mother,” she says. “Sibongile has brought media into my home and got Bishop I Makamu to intervene
and help to take a DNA test to see whether she is my daughter or not. She must
go ahead.” After being discharged from hospital, Sibongile
opened a case at Alexandra Police Station. “They police call it grievous bodily
harm but I want it changed to attempted murder because I could have almost died,”
Sibongile says. Constable Faranani Netsilwane of Alexandra Police
Station confirms that a case was opened at the station and the matter is under
investigation. “Sibongile’s mother was arrested and asked to give a statement. She was then
released due to medical reasons,” he says. “The next court date is on the 24th
of October.”  