Two and a half years after anti-abortion doctor Jacques de Vos was charged for allegedly dissuading a woman not to terminate her pregnancy, a Health Professions Council of SA hearing into his conduct will decide his fate on whether he can continue to practise. His wait for finalisation of the matter continues, as proceedings were this week postponed to December 9 for the panel to decide whether De Vos will face four charges. De Vos's bid for the scrapping of two charges was dismissed this week, the Cape Times reported on Wednesday. He is being charged with unprofessional conduct for acting in a manner that was not in accordance with the norms and standards of his profession during an internship in December 2016. De Vos was charged for allegedly dissuading a pregnant woman from terminating her pregnancy and likening it to the "killing of a human being", while he was an intern at 2 Military Hospital, the report said. He has also been barred from doing his community service after being suspended from completing his gynaecology rotation. 2 Military Hospital, where he practised as a medical intern two years ago, refused to sign him off when he completed his internship in June 2017. He was reportedly expected to plead once the committee made their decision over the remaining charges and allowed De Vos to consider his options, such as approaching the High Court for a review. De Vos's legal team had previously argued that their client had suffered severe ongoing prejudice, as he has been unable to practise as a doctor since June 2017. De Vos is a member of anti-abortion organisation Doctors For Life International and is being legally represented by attorneys and senior counsel on a pro bono basis. Meanwhile, almost R100 000 has been raised to cover De Vos's expenses for the disciplinary inquiry via crowdfunding. This was to cover costs such as travelling, accommodation and other expenses of local and possibly international experts. It would also be used for the direct expenses incurred by Doctors For Life and De Vos's legal team. One donor gave R 4 010, commenting: "As a pro-life doctor, this cause is close to my heart. Tonight I am working [as] a locum to pay for this donation. Let's stop abortion." Another, who donated R 1 550, commented: "Glory to God." - Compiled by Tammy Petersen