She cradles her newborn as she breastfeeds her, a tender
moment that should bring her nothing but contentment and pride. Instead Elina
Maseko’s eyes are brimming with tears. She can’t stop thinking about how close
she came to losing her baby when she gave birth to her in the street – right outside
the gates of a clinic in Pretoria. Elina (47) also can’t forget how thenurses allegedly turned
her away that Sunday night, refusing to admit her even though she was in full
labour. The indignity and humiliation of giving birth in public – in full view
of passers-by – and the terror of thinking she would lose her child, will be
with her forever, she tells us when we visit mom and baby in their Mamelodi
East home. “This incident hurt me so much,” Elina says, tears running
down her face as she looks down at her baby, Precious. The baby is named after
Elina’s niece, Sibongile Precious Morudu (28), who was by her aunt’s side on
the street and helped deliver the baby. “I didn’t know what I
was doing,” Sibongile says, “but with God’s grace I managed.” The nurses wouldn’t allow Elina into the clinic, she adds,
even though she was clearly in distress. Why? Because of her age. “The [nurses] started
shouting, saying they wouldn’t help her because she was too high risk. They
threw her clinic card at us and told us to go to Mamelodi Regional Hospital.” As the women left the clinic, confused and scared, Elina’s
water broke and she began screaming for help. Sibongile pleaded with the nurses
but was again told to go to the hospital. “I helped my aunt sit down and then I saw the baby’s head
coming out. I took off my jacket to protect the baby from falling on the
pavement or getting cold. I told her ‘push’ and she did. She was crying in
pain,” Sibongile says. “Before I knew it the baby was out and still no one had come
to assist us. I took the baby from between her thighs and folded my jacket
around her.” Elina didn’t expect any problems with the birth as she’d been
going for regular checkups at the clinic in her area. She also had four other children
so she wasn’t new to pregnancy and childbirth. On the Sunday night she went into labour, she and Sibongile
asked a neighbor to drive them to Mamelodi Regional Hospital, where she’d been
scheduled to deliver her baby, but on the way the car ran out of petrol. Desperate, the two women hailed a taxi to the nearest
clinic, Stanza Bopape II Clinic in Mamelodi East. They arrived at 8 pm and were
allegedly told to go to Mamelodi Regional Hospital. The nurses gave no
explanation as to why they refused to help Elina, apart from saying she was
high risk, Sibongile claims. A pregnant woman is considered “geriatric” or of “advanced
maternal age” if she falls pregnant after the age of 34. These pregnancies are
often classified as high risk due to the increased risk of premature birth,
stillbirth, chromosomal defects in the baby and labour complications. After the baby was born outside the clinic gates, Sibongile
placed the crying child on Elina’s chest, with the umbilical cord attached. She
then ran back inside the clinic with a security guard who had watched the
birth. They told the nurses Elina had given birth, and only then were they
allowed into the clinic. However, the humiliation didn’t end there, the women claim.
The nurses allegedly shouted at Sibongile, accusing her of endangering the
lives of her aunt and the newborn. “They said I could’ve given them an infection because I used
my bare hands to hold the baby. But my fear was the baby would fall on the
pavement and die. I had to do something,” Mom and baby stayed overnight at the clinic and were
transferred to Mamelodi Regional Hospital the following day. They were
discharged a few days later. Elina’s husband,
Thomas Rakhavha (50), is furious about what happened. “I didn’t expect this
from the clinic as it’s a facility that’s supposed to help the community,” he
says. “Someone has to be held accountable for this,” adds Thomas,
who works as a bartender in Pretoria. “We are broken by this and those
responsible must answer.” He is, however, happy with the new addition to their family.
The couple have four other children – Lettie (28), Peter (23), Josephine (19)
and Angela (9), who all dote on their little sister. “The pregnancy came as a surprise but we embraced it,”
Thomas says, “but we didn’t think such a hurtful delivery would happen.” Sibongile and the Mamelodi Treatment Action Campaign (TAC)
reported the incident at the Mamelodi East police station. Bobby Mohanoe, the chairperson of the Mamelodi TAC, says
Elina’s alleged treatment is in contravention of the National Health Act. The
TAC wants the nurses to be reported to the South African Nursing Council and
fired. “We plan to interact with the department of health to start
an internal disciplinary hearing as soon as they have finalized their internal
investigations. We will also ensure that the family receives counselling and
we’ll keep on supporting the family until the matter is finalised,” Mohanoe
says. The TAC has also reported the case to the South African
Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) “for a human rights violation investigation and
we’re looking at a civil litigation compensation claim”, Mohanoe says. After visiting the clinic, Buang Jones, provincial manager
of the SAHRC, said it was facing “many challenges”. He said some nurses were
burnt out and there is no doctor at the facility. “The maternity ward
is too small. There is no filing system. There are staff shortages. The
maternity ward only has eight beds. There are only two midwives and a student nurse.
There is no administrative support and they have only one computer,” Jones told
the media after his inspection. The department of health has assured the family that
investigations are under way and that its district office has also launched an
investigation. District manager Mothomone Pitsi has apologised to the family. “This is not how we
manage patients. Even if this mother was high risk, the expectation would have
been for her to be examined properly and then an ambulance called to take her
to a hospital,” Pitsi says. He’s promised that a team of labour relations officials will
investigate and report back within a month with a recommended course of action.
Until then, Elina is trying to come to terms with what happened to her. “I didn’t deserve that treatment. No one does,” she says.