   A mother from Rustenberg in North West is grateful that her daughter and son-in-law's mom are alive after surviving a car crash on their way to hospital. On Monday, Tina
van Niekerk (45) wrote on Facebook, “Today I need to testify to God’s
greatness. On Saturday morning I got a call to say my daughter had gone into
labour. Her mother-in-law had been driving her to the hospital in Brits but on
the way there’d been an accident and the car rolled. “My
daughter had been lying on the back seat. Bystanders broke open the sunroof to
get her out. She was unconscious. She woke up in hospital and gave birth to a
beautiful, normal, healthy baby boy. “Apart from
a few bruises and some glass shards in her back, arm and leg, she has no
serious injuries. Mom-in-law’s arm and collarbone is broken but otherwise she’s
okay.” The
pictures Tina posted of the car wreck show how badly things could’ve ended. Tina and
her 24-year-old daughter hadn’t wanted to say any more about the accident. The
daughter told YOU the only thing that matters is that she can hold her baby in
her arms. His safety is her first priority. She can’t
remember anything about the accident. Her husband had been at work when she
went into labour at home and her mother-in-law had to take her to the Brits
hospital.  Apparently,
the mom-in-law had been avoiding another accident when their car rolled.
Captain Elsabé Augoustides, local police spokesperson, confirmed to YOU that
the accident took place on Friday evening 27 September at around 9pm before the
Buffelspoort off-ramp on the N4 highway. “There’d
been a pile-up following two trucks colliding. The Mercedes-Benz [in which the
pregnant woman was travelling] was then involved in the accident. ER24 took the
woman to the local state hospital in Brits when they realised she was having
contractions.”  Augoustides
confirmed the baby is unharmed and was born in hospital and that the
mom-in-law, who also survived the accident, was taken to a different, private
hospital. “They were
very lucky,” Augoustides added.