Outsider
candidates challenged Tunisia's political elite on Sunday as voters returned to
the polls weeks after a presidential election that reshaped the country's
post-Arab Spring political landscape. The ink-stained fingers once
proudly displayed after the 2011 revolution were briskly wiped clean as
Tunisians, fed up with the status quo, cast ballots for MPs for the third time
since the uprising. The vote comes after traditional
political parties were eclipsed in favour of independent candidates during the
first round of presidential polls last month in a trend that looked likely to
continue. Sixty-year-old voter Mohamed
Daadaa said he had "no hope for a positive change" in Tunisia. "I don't trust anyone or any
political party. Life just gets worse in this country," he said. More than 15 000 candidates on 1
500 lists are contesting 217 seats in a parliament dominated by the
Islamist-inspired Ennahdha, in alliance with centrist party Nidaa Tounes, which
has been decimated by infighting. Tunisia heads to polls for uncertain presidential contest Tunisians take part in the presidential elections and head to cast their vote in the polling stations in Tunisia. Polling stations for the seven-million
electorate were to remain open until 18:00, with preliminary official results
scheduled for Wednesday, although exit polls were expected to be released from
late on Sunday. Surveys circulated informally,
due to a ban on their publication, predict Ennahdha will lose ground to the new
Qalb Tounes (Heart of Tunisia) party of jailed business tycoon Nabil Karoui,
who has won a place in a two-way presidential run-off on October 13. 'People no
longer trust the old parties' The sidelining of the ruling
political class in the first round on September 15 was rooted in frustration
over a stagnant economy, high unemployment, failing public services and rising
prices. But monitors worried that voters
on Sunday had found little inspiration at the ballot box. "People no longer trust the
old parties and they don't know the new ones, so they're not motivated in this
election," said Ali Rekiki, who works with Tunisian electoral monitor
Mourakiboun. Karoui, a media mogul held since
August on money-laundering charges, came second behind Kais Saied, an
independent law professor, in the first round of presidential voting. Courts have rejected several
appeals for his release during campaigning. Interim president Mohammed
Ennaceur – filling in since the death of Beji Caid Essebsi in July brought
forward the vote for head of state – warned on Friday that Karoui's detention
could have "serious and dangerous repercussions on the electoral
process". The presidential race may have
overshadowed the legislative contest, but parliament is responsible for
tackling the main challenges facing Tunisian society. A strong showing for Qalb Tounes
could bolster Karoui's campaign and supporters say it might make a case for him
to take over as prime minister if he loses to Saied. 'Anti-party' The socially conservative
professor has not come out in support of any party. With the electorate tired of
political manoeuvring and the failure to improve living conditions since the
ouster of late long-time autocrat Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, new movements have
been vying for votes. Aich Tounsi, which calls itself
an "anti-party", has emerged from the civil society movement, while
Islamist populist lawyer Seifeddine Makhlouf's Karama aims to take seats from
Ennahdha, which has been weakened by past alliances with political elites. With the plethora of parties and
movements in contention, the stage is set for complex and rowdy negotiations
before any side emerges with the minimum 109 seats needed to head Tunisia's
next government. In the run-up to the vote, Qalb
Tounes and Ennahdha have officially ruled out forming an alliance. Parliament will have two months
to agree on the formation of a new government in a country hailed as the Arab
Spring's sole democratic success story but straining to meet the revolution's
other demands of "work and dignity". While it has succeeded in curbing
terrorist attacks that rocked the key tourist sector in 2015, Tunisia's economy
remains hampered by austere International Monetary Fund (IMF) backed reforms. 