Gauteng is ready to administer the 2019 National Senior Certificate examinations to its 111 775 full-time candidates and 41 599 part-time candidates.   The province which beat their counterparts last year had an increase of pupils sitting for their exam by 4 612 compared to 2018.   Examinations will begin on October 16 and end on November 29.   ".... the Gauteng Department of Education and Youth Development has the highest enrolment for the NSC examination in the country. We registered a total of 1007 centres that are eligible to administer the 2019 NSC examinations, across all our 15 Districts in the province. Of these centres, 667 are Public Ordinary Schools, 235 Independent Schools, 87 Adult Education and Training (AET) centres, 11 Correctional Services centres and 7 designated centres," said Gauteng Education MEC, Panyaza Lesufi.   Chief invigilators and invigilators have been officially appointed and trained.   "An extensive network of monitors has been established across the province. They are derived from head office, districts and other stakeholders, to ensure that the processes relating to conduct, administration and management of the examination is fair, credible and of integrity.   "Necessary arrangements to manage the distribution and collection of question papers and answer is in tact. The said process will be managed daily. We are happy with security arrangements around this process which unfortunately, we cannot share for security reasons," Lesufi said.   He has encouraged pupils to obtain interactive revision material.   On Monday, pupils from Eldorado Park Secondary School will be taken to a camp to catch-up on Curriculum time lost.   The department has urged pupils with stress challenges during the examinations to contact Child Line for counselling.   Parents, guardians and members of the public are also urged to assist pupils suspected of not coping.   Results will be released on January 7, 2020 at schools.   Lesufi wished pupils best of luck and assured them that their full support.   "Pupils are urged to conduct themselves with honesty during the exam. Cheating and other exam irregularities may result in a criminal record. Tears and sweat taste the same but will get you different results. Tears will get you sympathy and sweat will get you change,” said Lesufi.