On Tuesday, South African social media caught
wind of a video of a matric pupil's father expressing his view that a matric art project is "anti-Christian"
and ungodly. The project depicts artworks of, among others, Jesus and the
McDonald's clown mascot, Ronald McDonald. In a recent academic paper Jacobs van Rooyen writes: "Dignity, religion and
freedom of expression in South Africa" "The effect of freedom of
expression can, at times, be a painful experience, but that is the price once
has to pay in a free and open democracy for the right to partake in that
freedom." There are often cases where the right to
freedom of expression and freedom of religion come into conflict with one
another. As Erica Howard writes in the Human Rights Law Review, "the
right to freedom of expression does not only apply to speech/art that is
favourably received, but also to speech that offends, shocks or disturbs. The
right includes criticising beliefs. You may express yourself, but you will be
open to criticism." At the same time, there is often a fine
line between hate speech and freedom of speech. Geert Wilders, a Dutch politician who was found
guilty of hate speech after expressing Islamophobic views, claimed that he was
simply expressing his right to freedom of speech. So the legal question and
societal issue in this current debacle is whether the matric pupils committed
hate speech or was simply exercising their freedom of expression. In an article on his blog site, "Constitutionally Speaking," Prof Pierre de Vos states that
the Constitutional Court has "spoken for the need for our laws reasonably
to accommodate the religious differences between us… as long as it does not
fundamentally limit our ability to live our lives as we see it fit. An atheist
is entitled to say that God is dead." De Vos goes on to mention the scandals
that cartoonist Zapiro had previously gotten himself into by offending members
of the Muslim and Hindu community with his cartoons. "Religious beliefs of
some could not be used to trumps the freedom rights of others, and Zapiro cannot be prohibited from drawing a
cartoon that offends some people. To allow that would be to allow the religious
views of some to dictate to others what they can and cannot do and say, thus
dominating the rights of a religious group and oppressing the rights of others." In 2014, there was a by-law that was
declared unconstitutional by the High Court in Gauteng. The
by-law stated that they do not allow advertising/art that is "insensitive
to the public, or any portion thereof, or to any religious or cultural group".
BDS South Africa, a collective boycott group had previously put up billboard
that expressed disdain for Jewish folk in Israel who were oppressing
Palestinians. Jewish organisations put pressure on having the advertisements
removed and used the previous Johannesburg by-law. If we return to the original legal,
societal question/issue that I posed and considering some of the sources I've
read and acknowledging the video and content of the artwork, I think, in my
opinion, that the matric pupil expressed their right to freedom of expression.
Yes, the artwork can be interpreted as exceptionally offensive to Christian
people, and by all means, Christians must definitely express their disdain for
it, but I also think it is important to allow for such criticisms, expressions
and discussions to take place in our constitutional democracy. There is definitely ongoing
inconsistencies and uncertainties regarding the right to freedom of expression.
It should be noted that intention, context and content are crucial to this and to determining whether it is actually freedom of speech/expression, or hate
speech. Remember that our constitutional
democracy is still young, and developments of determining the two are still
ongoing. However, it is important to note that our court system and the Human
Rights Commission do have a role to play in this.