He felt his
blood boil with indignation when he heard the three suspects in his
granddaughter’s kidnapping case plead not guilty in court, says Amy’Leigh de
Jager’s grandfather. Tharina
Human (27), Laetitia Nel (40) and Pieter van Zyl (50) were back in the
magistrate’s court in Vanderbijlpark, Gauteng, on Tuesday where they each
indicated their intention of pleading not guilty to the kidnapping charges
against them. The three
were in court hoping to hear if they’d been granted bail, but the bail
application was moved again, to 11 October, when Magistrate Hussain Khota is
expected to deliver a bail verdict. The fourth
accused, Bofokeng Molemohi (24), is only due back in court today (2 October).
He has yet to lodge an official bail application. At
Tuesday’s court appearance, the legal teams on both sides were arguing over
whether the three are flights risks, whether they’re a danger to society, and
whether there’s enough evidence to support claims they might interfere with
witnesses. The
situation is poised on a knife-edge now, says Amy’Leigh’s granddad Christo. “I could
hardly believe my ears when I heard they’re planning on entering a not-guilty
plea – it was a tremendous shock,” he says. “It doesn’t
make any sense – there’d already been confessions. And in those confessions
there’s already been testimony about how the kidnapping plans had been executed
and who’d been involved in the planning.” Christo
says he was disgusted when the three accused’s lawyer smiled when the court
heard testimony about Amy’Leigh’s wellbeing. Last week, the six-year-old’s
parents, Wynand and Angeline, told YOU the little girl struggles with stomach
ulcers and nightmares – and that doctors believe they’re caused by the trauma
of her kidnapping. “The
lawyers are constantly trying to prove Amy’Leigh is unharmed. And today, when
testimony was delivered about her health challenges, one of them grinned. It
makes me furious. No, more than that – it makes my blood boil. I can’t believe
they’re implying she suffered no ill effects after the whole drama,” Christo
says. He adds the
family are now waiting anxiously to see what’s going to happen in court in the
next few weeks. But their first priority is to protect Amy’Leigh and her
brother, Jayden (5). “Of course
we want this thing to come to an end . . . For now I have no reason to be
bitter about our legal system yet. These guys [police detectives] fought hard
to bring Amy’Leigh back to us and they’re [state prosecutors] fighting equally
hard to make the guilty parties pay for what they did. We believe that’s
exactly what’s going to happen – the guilty will pay.”